ࡡࡡched, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the
latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.

1:8 I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you
with the Holy Ghost.

1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth
of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.

1:10 And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens
opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: 1:11 And there
came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I
am well pleased.

1:12 And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.

1:13 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan;
and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.

1:14 Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee,
preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 1:15 And saying, The time
is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and
believe the gospel.

1:16 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew
his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.

1:17 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you
to become fishers of men.

1:18 And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him.

1:19 And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the
son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship
mending their nets.

1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their father
Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.

1:21 And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day
he entered into the synagogue, and taught.

1:22 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as
one that had authority, and not as the scribes.

1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit;
and he cried out, 1:24 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with
thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee
who thou art, the Holy One of God.

1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of
him.

1:26 And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud
voice, he came out of him.

1:27 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among
themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for
with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they do
obey him.

1:28 And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region
round about Galilee.

1:29 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they
entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.

1:30 But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell
him of her.

1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and
immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.

1:32 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that
were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils.

1:33 And all the city was gathered together at the door.

1:34 And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast
out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they
knew him.

1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went
out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.

1:36 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him.

1:37 And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for
thee.

1:38 And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may
preach there also: for therefore came I forth.

1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and
cast out devils.

1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down
to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

1:41 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched
him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean.

1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed
from him, and he was cleansed.

1:43 And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 1:44
And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way,
shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things
which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.

1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze
abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into
the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from
every quarter.

2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it was
noised that he was in the house.

2:2 And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there
was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door: and he
preached the word unto them.

2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was
borne of four.

2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they
uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they
let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay.

2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy,
Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.

2:6 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning
in their hearts, 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can
forgive sins but God only?  2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived
in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto
them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?  2:9 Whether is it
easier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or
to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?  2:10 But that ye may
know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he
saith to the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, and take
up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.

2:12 And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before
them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,
saying, We never saw it on this fashion.

2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude
resorted unto him, and he taught them.

2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at
the receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and
followed him.

2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house,
many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his
disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.

2:16 And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and
sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and
drinketh with publicans and sinners?  2:17 When Jesus heard it, he
saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician,
but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance.

2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast: and
they come and say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and of the
Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?  2:19 And Jesus said unto
them, Can the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom
is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they
cannot fast.

2:20 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away
from them, and then shall they fast in those days.

2:21 No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment: else
the new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old, and the rent
is made worse.

2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new wine
doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles will
be marred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.

2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the
sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears
of corn.

2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the
sabbath day that which is not lawful?  2:25 And he said unto them,
Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an
hungred, he, and they that were with him?  2:26 How he went into the
house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and did eat the
shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the priests, and gave
also to them which were with him?  2:27 And he said unto them, The
sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 2:28 Therefore
the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.

3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there
which had a withered hand.

3:2 And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath
day; that they might accuse him.

3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand
forth.

3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath
days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they held their
peace.

3:5 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being
grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man,
Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand was
restored whole as the other.

3:6 And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with
the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a
great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, 3:8 And
from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and they
about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard what
great things he did, came unto him.

3:9 And he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait on
him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.

3:10 For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for
to touch him, as many as had plagues.

3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and
cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God.

3:12 And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.

3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he
would: and they came unto him.

3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he
might send them forth to preach, 3:15 And to have power to heal
sicknesses, and to cast out devils: 3:16 And Simon he surnamed Peter;
3:17 And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and
he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: 3:18 And
Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and
James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into
an house.

3:20 And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not
so much as eat bread.

3:21 And when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold on
him: for they said, He is beside himself.

3:22 And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath
Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.

3:23 And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How
can Satan cast out Satan?  3:24 And if a kingdom be divided against
itself, that kingdom cannot stand.

3:25 And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot
stand.

3:26 And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot
stand, but hath an end.

3:27 No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods,
except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his
house.

3:28 Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons
of men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: 3:29
But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never
forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation.

3:30 Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.

3:31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing
without, sent unto him, calling him.

3:32 And the multitude sat about him, and they said unto him, Behold,
thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee.

3:33 And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?
3:34 And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and said,
Behold my mother and my brethren!  3:35 For whosoever shall do the
will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.

4:1 And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was
gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship,
and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the
land.

4:2 And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in
his doctrine, 4:3 Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow: 4:4
And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the
fowls of the air came and devoured it up.

4:5 And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and
immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: 4:6 But
when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it
withered away.

4:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it,
and it yielded no fruit.

4:8 And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up
and increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and
some an hundred.

4:9 And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

4:10 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve
asked of him the parable.

4:11 And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery
of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all these
things are done in parables: 4:12 That seeing they may see, and not
perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at any
time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them.

4:13 And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then
will ye know all parables?  4:14 The sower soweth the word.

4:15 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but
when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the
word that was sown in their hearts.

4:16 And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who,
when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness;
4:17 And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time:
afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake,
immediately they are offended.

4:18 And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the
word, 4:19 And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of
riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and
it becometh unfruitful.

4:20 And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hear
the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some
sixty, and some an hundred.

4:21 And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a
bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick?  4:22 For
there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was any
thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad.

4:23 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

4:24 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure
ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shall
more be given.

4:25 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not,
from him shall be taken even that which he hath.

4:26 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast
seed into the ground; 4:27 And should sleep, and rise night and day,
and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how.

4:28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade,
then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear.

4:29 But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in
the sickle, because the harvest is come.

4:30 And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with
what comparison shall we compare it?  4:31 It is like a grain of
mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all
the seeds that be in the earth: 4:32 But when it is sown, it groweth
up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great
branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of
it.

4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they
were able to hear it.

4:34 But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they were
alone, he expounded all things to his disciples.

4:35 And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let
us pass over unto the other side.

4:36 And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as
he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.

4:37 And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into
the ship, so that it was now full.

4:38 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow:
and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we
perish?  4:39 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the
sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.

4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye
have no faith?  4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to
another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea
obey him?  5:1 And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into
the country of the Gadarenes.

5:2 And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him
out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 5:3 Who had his
dwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with
chains: 5:4 Because that he had been often bound with fetters and
chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the
fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.

5:5 And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the
tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.

5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him, 5:7 And
cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus,
thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment
me not.

5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.

5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My
name is Legion: for we are many.

5:10 And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of
the country.

5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine
feeding.

5:12 And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine,
that we may enter into them.

5:13 And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went
out, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a
steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were
choked in the sea.

5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city, and in
the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done.

5:15 And they come to Jesus, and see him that was possessed with the
devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his right
mind: and they were afraid.

5:16 And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was
possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine.

5:17 And they began to pray him to depart out of their coasts.

5:18 And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed
with the devil prayed him that he might be with him.

5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to
thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for
thee, and hath had compassion on thee.

5:20 And he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis how great
things Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel.

5:21 And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side,
much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.

5:22 And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue,
Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet, 5:23 And
besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of
death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be
healed; and she shall live.

5:24 And Jesus went with him; and much people followed him, and
thronged him.

5:25 And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years,
5:26 And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent
all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,
5:27 When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and
touched his garment.

5:28 For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.

5:29 And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she
felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.

5:30 And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone
out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my
clothes?  5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the
multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  5:32 And
he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.

5:33 But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in
her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.

5:34 And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole;
go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.

5:35 While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's
house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the
Master any further?  5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word that was
spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only
believe.

5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and
John the brother of James.

5:38 And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and
seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.

5:39 And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this
ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.

5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out,
he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were
with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.

5:41 And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha
cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.

5:42 And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the
age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great
astonishment.

5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; and
commanded that something should be given her to eat.

6:1 And he went out from thence, and came into his own country; and
his disciples follow him.

6:2 And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the
synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence
hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given
unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands?  6:3
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and
Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?
And they were offended at him.

6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, but in
his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house.

6:5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands
upon a few sick folk, and healed them.

6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round
about the villages, teaching.

6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by
two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits; 6:8 And
commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a
staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But be
shod with sandals; and not put on two coats.

6:10 And he said unto them, In what place soever ye enter into an
house, there abide till ye depart from that place.

6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart
thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against
them.

Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and
Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.

6:12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent.

6:13 And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that
were sick, and healed them.

6:14 And king Herod heard of him; (for his name was spread abroad:)
and he said, That John the Baptist was risen from the dead, and
therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.

6:15 Others said, That it is Elias. And others said, That it is a
prophet, or as one of the prophets.

6:16 But when Herod heard thereof, he said, It is John, whom I
beheaded: he is risen from the dead.

6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and
bound him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife: for
he had married her.

6:18 For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have
thy brother's wife.

6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have
killed him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing
that he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he
heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.

6:21 And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday
made a supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates of
Galilee; 6:22 And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, and
danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said
unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it
thee.

6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will
give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.

6:24 And she went forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask?
And she said, The head of John the Baptist.

6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked,
saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of
John the Baptist.

6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and
for their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject her.

6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded his
head to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28
And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the
damsel gave it to her mother.

6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his
corpse, and laid it in a tomb.

6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and
told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had
taught.

6:31 And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert
place, and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, and
they had no leisure so much as to eat.

6:32 And they departed into a desert place by ship privately.

6:33 And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran
afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came together
unto him.

6:34 And Jesus, when he came out, saw much people, and was moved with
compassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having a
shepherd: and he began to teach them many things.

6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him,
and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36
Send them away, that they may go into the country round about, and
into the villages, and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to
eat.

6:37 He answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say
unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and
give them to eat?  6:38 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye?
go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes.

6:39 And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the
green grass.

6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.

6:41 And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he
looked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave them
to his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he
among them all.

6:42 And they did all eat, and were filled.

6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the
fishes.

6:44 And they that did eat of the loaves were about five thousand men.

6:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the
ship, and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent
away the people.

6:46 And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to
pray.

6:47 And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, and
he alone on the land.

6:48 And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary unto
them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them,
walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them.

6:49 But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had
been a spirit, and cried out: 6:50 For they all saw him, and were
troubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them, Be
of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.

6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased: and
they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered.

6:52 For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their
heart was hardened.

6:53 And when they had passed over, they came into the land of
Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.

6:54 And when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knew
him, 6:55 And ran through that whole region round about, and began to
carry about in beds those that were sick, where they heard he was.

6:56 And whithersoever he entered, into villages, or cities, or
country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they
might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as
touched him were made whole.

7:1 Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the
scribes, which came from Jerusalem.

7:2 And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled,
that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fault.

7:3 For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands
oft, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders.

7:4 And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eat
not.

And many other things there be, which they have received to hold, as
the washing of cups, and pots, brasen vessels, and of tables.

7:5 Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thy
disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with
unwashen hands?  7:6 He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias
prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth
me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.

7:7 Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the
commandments of men.

7:8 For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of
men, as the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like things
ye do.

7:9 And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God,
that ye may keep your own tradition.

7:10 For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso
curseth father or mother, let him die the death: 7:11 But ye say, If a
man shall say to his father or mother, It is Corban, that is to say, a
gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free.

7:12 And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his
mother; 7:13 Making the word of God of none effect through your
tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things do ye.

7:14 And when he had called all the people unto him, he said unto
them, Hearken unto me every one of you, and understand: 7:15 There is
nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: but
the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.

7:16 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

7:17 And when he was entered into the house from the people, his
disciples asked him concerning the parable.

7:18 And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Do
ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the
man, it cannot defile him; 7:19 Because it entereth not into his
heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all
meats?  7:20 And he said, That which cometh out of the man, that
defileth the man.

7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts,
adulteries, fornications, murders, 7:22 Thefts, covetousness,
wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride,
foolishness: 7:23 All these evil things come from within, and defile
the man.

7:24 And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and
Sidon, and entered into an house, and would have no man know it: but
he could not be hid.

7:25 For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit,
heard of him, and came and fell at his feet: 7:26 The woman was a
Greek, a Syrophenician by nation; and she besought him that he would
cast forth the devil out of her daughter.

7:27 But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it
is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it unto the
dogs.

7:28 And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs under
the table eat of the children's crumbs.

7:29 And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil is
gone out of thy daughter.

7:30 And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out,
and her daughter laid upon the bed.

7:31 And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came
unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis.

7:32 And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment
in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.

7:33 And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers
into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue; 7:34 And looking
up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be
opened.

7:35 And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his
tongue was loosed, and he spake plain.

7:36 And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he
charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it; 7:37
And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things
well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.

8:1 In those days the multitude being very great, and having nothing
to eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him, and saith unto them, 8:2
I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been with me
three days, and have nothing to eat: 8:3 And if I send them away
fasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of
them came from far.

8:4 And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfy
these men with bread here in the wilderness?  8:5 And he asked them,
How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.

8:6 And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground: and he took
the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his
disciples to set before them; and they did set them before the people.

8:7 And they had a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to
set them also before them.

8:8 So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken
meat that was left seven baskets.

8:9 And they that had eaten were about four thousand: and he sent them
away.

8:10 And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples, and
came into the parts of Dalmanutha.

8:11 And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him,
seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him.

8:12 And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this
generation seek after a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no
sign be given unto this generation.

8:13 And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to
the other side.

8:14 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they
in the ship with them more than one loaf.

8:15 And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of
the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.

8:16 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have
no bread.

8:17 And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye,
because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand?
have ye your heart yet hardened?  8:18 Having eyes, see ye not? and
having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember?  8:19 When I brake
the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full of
fragments took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.

8:20 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of
fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven.

8:21 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?  8:22
And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and
besought him to touch him.

8:23 And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the
town; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he
asked him if he saw ought.

8:24 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking.

8:25 After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him
look up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly.

8:26 And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the
town, nor tell it to any in the town.

8:27 And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea
Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them,
Whom do men say that I am?  8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist;
but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets.

8:29 And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter
answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ.

8:30 And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.

8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many
things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and
scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.

8:32 And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to
rebuke him.

8:33 But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he
rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest
not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men.

8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his disciples
also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny
himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

8:35 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever
shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save
it.

8:36 For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own soul?  8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange for
his soul?  8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my
words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the
Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with
the holy angels.

9:1 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some
of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they
have seen the kingdom of God come with power.

9:2 And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and
John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves:
and he was transfigured before them.

9:3 And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no
fuller on earth can white them.

9:4 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were
talking with Jesus.

9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to
be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for
Moses, and one for Elias.

9:6 For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid.

9:7 And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came out
of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.

9:8 And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no man
any more, save Jesus only with themselves.

9:9 And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they
should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were
risen from the dead.

9:10 And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with
another what the rising from the dead should mean.

9:11 And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must
first come?  9:12 And he answered and told them, Elias verily cometh
first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the Son of
man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought.

9:13 But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done
unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him.

9:14 And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about
them, and the scribes questioning with them.

9:15 And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were
greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him.

9:16 And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them?  9:17 And
one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto
thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; 9:18 And wheresoever he taketh
him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and
pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him
out; and they could not.

9:19 He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long
shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.

9:20 And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway
the spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.

9:21 And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto
him?  And he said, Of a child.

9:22 And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters,
to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us,
and help us.

9:23 Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are
possible to him that believeth.

9:24 And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with
tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.

9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked
the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge
thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.

9:26 And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him: and
he was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.

9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose.

9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him
privately, Why could not we cast him out?  9:29 And he said unto them,
This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.

9:30 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he
would not that any man should know it.

9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man
is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after
that he is killed, he shall rise the third day.

9:32 But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him.

9:33 And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them,
What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?  9:34 But
they held their peace: for by the way they had disputed among
themselves, who should be the greatest.

9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If
any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant
of all.

9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when
he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37 Whosoever shall
receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever
shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.

9:38 And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out
devils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and we forbad him,
because he followeth not us.

9:39 But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shall
do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me.

9:40 For he that is not against us is on our part.

9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name,
because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose
his reward.

9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe
in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his
neck, and he were cast into the sea.

9:43 And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to
enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into
the fire that never shall be quenched: 9:44 Where their worm dieth
not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:45 And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to
enter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into
the fire that never shall be quenched: 9:46 Where their worm dieth
not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:47 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee
to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to
be cast into hell fire: 9:48 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire
is not quenched.

9:49 For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice
shall be salted with salt.

9:50 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith
will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with
another.

10:1 And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by
the farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and,
as he was wont, he taught them again.

10:2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a
man to put away his wife? tempting him.

10:3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?
10:4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and
to put her away.

10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your
heart he wrote you this precept.

10:6 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and
female.

10:7 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and
cleave to his wife; 10:8 And they twain shall be one flesh: so then
they are no more twain, but one flesh.

10:9 What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.

10:10 And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same
matter.

10:11 And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and
marry another, committeth adultery against her.

10:12 And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to
another, she committeth adultery.

10:13 And they brought young children to him, that he should touch
them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.

10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto
them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not:
for of such is the kingdom of God.

10:15 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom
of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.

10:16 And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and
blessed them.

10:17 And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running,
and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I
may inherit eternal life?  10:18 And Jesus said unto him, Why callest
thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God.

10:19 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not
kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy
father and mother.  10:20 And he answered and said unto him, Master,
all these have I observed from my youth.

10:21 Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing
thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the
cross, and follow me.

10:22 And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had
great possessions.

10:23 And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How
hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
10:24 And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus
answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for
them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!  10:25 It
is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a
rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

10:26 And they were astonished out of measure, saying among
themselves, Who then can be saved?  10:27 And Jesus looking upon them
saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all
things are possible.

10:28 Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have
followed thee.

10:29 And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no
man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or
mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel's,
10:30 But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses,
and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with
persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life.

10:31 But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.

10:32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went
before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were
afraid.

And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things
should happen unto him, 10:33 Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem;
and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto
the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver
him to the Gentiles: 10:34 And they shall mock him, and shall scourge
him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he
shall rise again.

10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying,
Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall
desire.

10:36 And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you?
10:37 They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy
right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.

10:38 But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink
of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am
baptized with?  10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said
unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with
the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 10:40 But
to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but
it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.

10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with
James and John.

10:42 But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that
they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship
over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them.

10:43 But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great
among you, shall be your minister: 10:44 And whosoever of you will be
the chiefest, shall be servant of all.

10:45 For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to
minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.

10:46 And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his
disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of
Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging.

10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry
out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.

10:48 And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried
the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.

10:49 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they
call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he
calleth thee.

10:50 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.

10:51 And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I
should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might
receive my sight.

10:52 And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee
whole.

And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.

11:1 And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany,
at the mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples, 11:2
And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you:
and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied,
whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.

11:3 And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord
hath need of him; and straightway he will send him hither.

11:4 And they went their way, and found the colt tied by the door
without in a place where two ways met; and they loose him.

11:5 And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye,
loosing the colt?  11:6 And they said unto them even as Jesus had
commanded: and they let them go.

11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on
him; and he sat upon him.

11:8 And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut down
branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.

11:9 And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying,
Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: 11:10
Blessed be the kingdom of our father David, that cometh in the name of
the Lord: Hosanna in the highest.

11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and when
he had looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide was
come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.

11:12 And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was
hungry: 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came,
if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he
found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.

11:14 And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee
hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

11:15 And they come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple, and
began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and
overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that
sold doves; 11:16 And would not suffer that any man should carry any
vessel through the temple.

11:17 And he taught, saying unto them, Is it not written, My house
shall be called of all nations the house of prayer? but ye have made
it a den of thieves.

11:18 And the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how they
might destroy him: for they feared him, because all the people was
astonished at his doctrine.

11:19 And when even was come, he went out of the city.

11:20 And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree
dried up from the roots.

11:21 And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Master, behold,
the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away.

11:22 And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God.

11:23 For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this
mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall
not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he
saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.

11:24 Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye
pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.

11:25 And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against
any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your
trespasses.

11:26 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in
heaven forgive your trespasses.

11:27 And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the
temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the
elders, 11:28 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these
things? and who gave thee this authority to do these things?  11:29
And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one
question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do
these things.

11:30 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? answer me.

11:31 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From
heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?  11:32 But if we
shall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all men counted John,
that he was a prophet indeed.

11:33 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesus
answering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I
do these things.

12:1 And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain man
planted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for
the winefat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went
into a far country.

12:2 And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he
might receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.

12:3 And they caught him, and beat him, and sent him away empty.

12:4 And again he sent unto them another servant; and at him they cast
stones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully
handled.

12:5 And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others;
beating some, and killing some.

12:6 Having yet therefore one son, his wellbeloved, he sent him also
last unto them, saying, They will reverence my son.

12:7 But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir;
come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be our's.

12:8 And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the
vineyard.

12:9 What shall therefore the lord of the vineyard do? he will come
and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard unto others.

12:10 And have ye not read this scripture; The stone which the
builders rejected is become the head of the corner: 12:11 This was the
Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?  12:12 And they sought
to lay hold on him, but feared the people: for they knew that he had
spoken the parable against them: and they left him, and went their
way.

12:13 And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the
Herodians, to catch him in his words.

12:14 And when they were come, they say unto him, Master, we know that
thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not the
person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to
give tribute to Caesar, or not?  12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not
give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye
me? bring me a penny, that I may see it.

12:16 And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image
and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's.

12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things
that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they
marvelled at him.

12:18 Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no
resurrection; and they asked him, saying, 12:19 Master, Moses wrote
unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and
leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up
seed unto his brother.

12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and
dying left no seed.

12:21 And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: and
the third likewise.

12:22 And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman
died also.

12:23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife
shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife.

12:24 And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err,
because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?  12:25
For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are
given in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven.

12:26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in
the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am
the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?  12:27
He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore
do greatly err.

12:28 And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning
together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him,
Which is the first commandment of all?  12:29 And Jesus answered him,
The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God
is one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy
strength: this is the first commandment.

12:31 And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than
these.

12:32 And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the
truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: 12:33 And
to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and
with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his
neighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and
sacrifices.

12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto
him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that
durst ask him any question.

12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How
say the scribes that Christ is the son of David?  12:36 For David
himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou on
my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.

12:37 David therefore himself calleth him Lord; and whence is he then
his son? And the common people heard him gladly.

12:38 And he said unto them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes,
which love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in the
marketplaces, 12:39 And the chief seats in the synagogues, and the
uppermost rooms at feasts: 12:40 Which devour widows' houses, and for
a pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.

12:41 And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the
people cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in
much.

12:42 And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites,
which make a farthing.

12:43 And he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them,
Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in, than
all they which have cast into the treasury: 12:44 For all they did
cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that
she had, even all her living.

13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto
him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!
13:2 And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these great
buildings?  there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall
not be thrown down.

13:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple,
Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, 13:4 Tell us,
when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign when all these
things shall be fulfilled?  13:5 And Jesus answering them began to
say, Take heed lest any man deceive you: 13:6 For many shall come in
my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.

13:7 And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye not
troubled: for such things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.

13:8 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against
kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there
shall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.

13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to
councils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be
brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against
them.

13:10 And the gospel must first be published among all nations.

13:11 But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take no
thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but
whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is
not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost.

13:12 Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the
father the son; and children shall rise up against their parents, and
shall cause them to be put to death.

13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that
shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.

13:14 But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of
by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that
readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the
mountains: 13:15 And let him that is on the housetop not go down into
the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house:
13:16 And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take
up his garment.

13:17 But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suck
in those days!  13:18 And pray ye that your flight be not in the
winter.

13:19 For in those days shall be affliction, such as was not from the
beginning of the creation which God created unto this time, neither
shall be.

13:20 And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh
should be saved: but for the elect's sake, whom he hath chosen, he
hath shortened the days.

13:21 And then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or,
lo, he is there; believe him not: 13:22 For false Christs and false
prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if
it were possible, even the elect.

13:23 But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.

13:24 But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be
darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, 13:25 And the stars
of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be
shaken.

13:26 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with
great power and glory.

13:27 And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his
elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the
uttermost part of heaven.

13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet
tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near: 13:29
So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass,
know that it is nigh, even at the doors.

13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till
all these things be done.

13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass
away.

13:32 But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels
which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.

13:33 Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.

13:34 For the Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey, who left
his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his
work, and commanded the porter to watch.

13:35 Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house
cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the
morning: 13:36 Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.

13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.

14:1 After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened
bread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might
take him by craft, and put him to death.

14:2 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of
the people.

14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat
at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of
spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on his
head.

14:4 And there were some that had indignation within themselves, and
said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?  14:5 For it might have
been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to
the poor. And they murmured against her.

14:6 And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath
wrought a good work on me.

14:7 For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will ye
may do them good: but me ye have not always.

14:8 She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint my
body to the burying.

14:9 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached
throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be
spoken of for a memorial of her.

14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief
priests, to betray him unto them.

14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him
money. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.

14:12 And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the
passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and
prepare that thou mayest eat the passover?  14:13 And he sendeth forth
two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, and
there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.

14:14 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the
house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat
the passover with my disciples?  14:15 And he will shew you a large
upper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us.

14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found
as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.

14:17 And in the evening he cometh with the twelve.

14:18 And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you,
One of you which eateth with me shall betray me.

14:19 And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one,
Is it I? and another said, Is it I?  14:20 And he answered and said
unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish.

14:21 The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to
that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man
if he had never been born.

14:22 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake
it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.

14:23 And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to
them: and they all drank of it.

14:24 And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament,
which is shed for many.

14:25 Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the
vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.

14:26 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of
Olives.

14:27 And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of
me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the
sheep shall be scattered.

14:28 But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.

14:29 But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet
will not I.

14:30 And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day,
even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me
thrice.

14:31 But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I
will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all.

14:32 And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he
saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray.

14:33 And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be
sore amazed, and to be very heavy; 14:34 And saith unto them, My soul
is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch.

14:35 And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed
that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.

14:36 And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee;
take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what
thou wilt.

14:37 And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter,
Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour?  14:38 Watch
ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready,
but the flesh is weak.

14:39 And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words.

14:40 And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their
eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him.

14:41 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now,
and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of
man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.

14:42 Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand.

14:43 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of the
twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from
the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.

14:44 And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying,
Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away
safely.

14:45 And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and
saith, Master, master; and kissed him.

14:46 And they laid their hands on him, and took him.

14:47 And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servant
of the high priest, and cut off his ear.

14:48 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as
against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me?  14:49 I was
daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the
scriptures must be fulfilled.

14:50 And they all forsook him, and fled.

14:51 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth
cast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: 14:52
And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.

14:53 And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were
assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.

14:54 And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the
high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the
fire.

14:55 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness
against Jesus to put him to death; and found none.

14:56 For many bare false witness against him, but their witness
agreed not together.

14:57 And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him,
saying, 14:58 We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is
made with hands, and within three days I will build another made
without hands.

14:59 But neither so did their witness agree together.

14:60 And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus,
saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against
thee?  14:61 But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the
high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son
of the Blessed?  14:62 And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son
of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of
heaven.

14:63 Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we
any further witnesses?  14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think
ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death.

14:65 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to
buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike
him with the palms of their hands.

14:66 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the
maids of the high priest: 14:67 And when she saw Peter warming
himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus
of Nazareth.

14:68 But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what
thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew.

14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood
by, This is one of them.

14:70 And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by
said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a
Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto.

14:71 But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man
of whom ye speak.

14:72 And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the
word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt
deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.

15:1 And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a
consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and
bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate.

15:2 And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he
answering said unto them, Thou sayest it.

15:3 And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answered
nothing.

15:4 And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing?
behold how many things they witness against thee.

15:5 But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled.

15:6 Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever
they desired.

15:7 And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them that
had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the
insurrection.

15:8 And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he
had ever done unto them.

15:9 But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you
the King of the Jews?  15:10 For he knew that the chief priests had
delivered him for envy.

15:11 But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rather
release Barabbas unto them.

15:12 And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then
that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews?  15:13 And
they cried out again, Crucify him.

15:14 Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And
they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.

15:15 And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas
unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to be
crucified.

15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium;
and they call together the whole band.

15:17 And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns,
and put it about his head, 15:18 And began to salute him, Hail, King
of the Jews!  15:19 And they smote him on the head with a reed, and
did spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him.

15:20 And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him,
and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.

15:21 And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out
of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.

15:22 And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being
interpreted, The place of a skull.

15:23 And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but he
received it not.

15:24 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments,
casting lots upon them, what every man should take.

15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.

15:26 And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE
KING OF THE JEWS.

15:27 And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right
hand, and the other on his left.

15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he was
numbered with the transgressors.

15:29 And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and
saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three
days, 15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross.

15:31 Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves
with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save.

15:32 Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that
we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled
him.

15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the
whole land until the ninth hour.

15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying,
Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken me?  15:35 And some of them that stood by,
when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.

15:36 And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a
reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether
Elias will come to take him down.

15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.

15:38 And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the
bottom.

15:39 And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw that
he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was
the Son of God.

15:40 There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was Mary
Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and
Salome; 15:41 (Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and
ministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with him unto
Jerusalem.

15:42 And now when the even was come, because it was the preparation,
that is, the day before the sabbath, 15:43 Joseph of Arimathaea, an
honourable counsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came,
and went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus.

15:44 And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto
him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead.

15:45 And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to
Joseph.

15:46 And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in
the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock,
and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre.

15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he
was laid.

16:1 And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the
mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might
come and anoint him.

16:2 And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they
came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun.

16:3 And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone
from the door of the sepulchre?  16:4 And when they looked, they saw
that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great.

16:5 And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on
the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were
affrighted.

16:6 And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of
Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the
place where they laid him.

16:7 But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth
before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.

16:8 And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they
trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for
they were afraid.

16:9 Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he
appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven
devils.

16:10 And she went and told them that had been with him, as they
mourned and wept.

16:11 And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had been
seen of her, believed not.

16:12 After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they
walked, and went into the country.

16:13 And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed
they them.

16:14 Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, and
upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they
believed not them which had seen him after he was risen.

16:15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the
gospel to every creature.

16:16 He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that
believeth not shall be damned.

16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall
they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 16:18 They
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall
not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.

16:19 So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up
into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.

16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working
with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.



The Gospel According to Saint Luke


1:1 Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a
declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us,
1:2 Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were
eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word; 1:3 It seemed good to me
also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very
first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, 1:4
That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou
hast been instructed.

1:5 THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain
priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the
daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.

1:6 And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the
commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.

1:7 And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they
both were now well stricken in years.

1:8 And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest's office
before God in the order of his course, 1:9 According to the custom of
the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the
temple of the Lord.

1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the
time of incense.

1:11 And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the
right side of the altar of incense.

1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon
him.

1:13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer
is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt
call his name John.

1:14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at
his birth.

1:15 For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink
neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy
Ghost, even from his mother's womb.

1:16 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord
their God.

1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to
turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

1:18 And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for
I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.

1:19 And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand
in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew
thee these glad tidings.

1:20 And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the
day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not
my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.

1:21 And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he
tarried so long in the temple.

1:22 And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they
perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned
unto them, and remained speechless.

1:23 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his
ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.

1:24 And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid
herself five months, saying, 1:25 Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in
the days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.

1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a
city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27 To a virgin espoused to a man
whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name
was Mary.

1:28 And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art
highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.

1:29 And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in
her mind what manner of salutation this should be.

1:30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found
favour with God.

1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a
son, and shalt call his name JESUS.

1:32 He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest:
and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:
1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his
kingdom there shall be no end.

1:34 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know
not a man?  1:35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy
Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall
overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of
thee shall be called the Son of God.

1:36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son
in her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called
barren.

1:37 For with God nothing shall be impossible.

1:38 And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me
according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.

1:39 And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country with
haste, into a city of Juda; 1:40 And entered into the house of
Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.

1:41 And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of
Mary, the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with the
Holy Ghost: 1:42 And she spake out with a loud voice, and said,
Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.

1:43 And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come
to me?  1:44 For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded
in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.

1:45 And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be a
performance of those things which were told her from the Lord.

1:46 And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, 1:47 And my spirit
hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.

1:48 For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for,
behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.

1:49 For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is
his name.

1:50 And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to
generation.

1:51 He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud
in the imagination of their hearts.

1:52 He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of
low degree.

1:53 He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath
sent empty away.

1:54 He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;
1:55 As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.

1:56 And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to her
own house.

1:57 Now Elisabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and
she brought forth a son.

1:58 And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewed
great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.

1:59 And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to
circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of
his father.

1:60 And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called
John.

1:61 And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is
called by this name.

1:62 And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called.

1:63 And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is
John. And they marvelled all.

1:64 And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and
he spake, and praised God.

1:65 And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all these
sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.

1:66 And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts,
saying, What manner of child shall this be! And the hand of the Lord
was with him.

1:67 And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and
prophesied, saying, 1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he
hath visited and redeemed his people, 1:69 And hath raised up an horn
of salvation for us in the house of his servant David; 1:70 As he
spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the
world began: 1:71 That we should be saved from our enemies, and from
the hand of all that hate us; 1:72 To perform the mercy promised to
our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant; 1:73 The oath which he
sware to our father Abraham, 1:74 That he would grant unto us, that we
being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without
fear, 1:75 In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of
our life.

1:76 And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for
thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways; 1:77 To
give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their
sins, 1:78 Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring
from on high hath visited us, 1:79 To give light to them that sit in
darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of
peace.

1:80 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the
deserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel.

2:1 And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree
from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.

2:2 (And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of
Syria.)  2:3 And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city.

2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth,
into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem;
(because he was of the house and lineage of David:) 2:5 To be taxed
with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.

2:6 And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were
accomplished that she should be delivered.

2:7 And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in
swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room
for them in the inn.

2:8 And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field,
keeping watch over their flock by night.

2:9 And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of
the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.

2:10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you
good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.

2:11 For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour,
which is Christ the Lord.

2:12 And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped
in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.

2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host praising God, and saying, 2:14 Glory to God in the highest, and
on earth peace, good will toward men.

2:15 And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into
heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto
Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord
hath made known unto us.

2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the
babe lying in a manger.

2:17 And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying
which was told them concerning this child.

2:18 And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were
told them by the shepherds.

2:19 But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.

2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all
the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.

2:21 And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the
child, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel
before he was conceived in the womb.

2:22 And when the days of her purification according to the law of
Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him
to the Lord; 2:23 (As it is written in the law of the LORD, Every male
that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;) 2:24 And to
offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the
Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.

2:25 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon;
and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of
Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.

2:26 And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should
not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ.

2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents
brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,
2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 2:29
Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy
word: 2:30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 2:31 Which thou hast
prepared before the face of all people; 2:32 A light to lighten the
Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.

2:33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were
spoken of him.

2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold,
this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and
for a sign which shall be spoken against; 2:35 (Yea, a sword shall
pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts
may be revealed.

2:36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of
the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an
husband seven years from her virginity; 2:37 And she was a widow of
about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple,
but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.

2:38 And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the
Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in
Jerusalem.

2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of
the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.

2:40 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with
wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.

2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the
passover.

2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after
the custom of the feast.

2:43 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child
Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not
of it.

2:44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's
journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.

2:45 And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem,
seeking him.

2:46 And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the
temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and
asking them questions.

2:47 And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and
answers.

2:48 And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto
him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I
have sought thee sorrowing.

2:49 And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not
that I must be about my Father's business?  2:50 And they understood
not the saying which he spake unto them.

2:51 And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject
unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.

2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God
and man.

3:1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius
Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee,
and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of
Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene, 3:2 Annas and
Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the
son of Zacharias in the wilderness.

3:3 And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the
baptism of repentance for the remission of sins; 3:4 As it is written
in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of
one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his
paths straight.

3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be
brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough
ways shall be made smooth; 3:6 And all flesh shall see the salvation
of God.

3:7 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of
him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the
wrath to come?  3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance,
and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father:
for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up
children unto Abraham.

3:9 And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every
tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and
cast into the fire.

3:10 And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?  3:11 He
answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart
to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.

3:12 Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,
Master, what shall we do?  3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no more
than that which is appointed you.

3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall
we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse
any falsely; and be content with your wages.

3:15 And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their
hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not; 3:16 John
answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but
one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy
to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
3:17 Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor,
and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn
with fire unquenchable.

3:18 And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the
people.

3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his
brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,
3:20 Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.

3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that
Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, 3:22
And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him,
and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in
thee I am well pleased.

3:23 And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being
(as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli, 3:24
Which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the
son of Melchi, which was the son of Janna, which was the son of
Joseph, 3:25 Which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of
Amos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, which was
the son of Nagge, 3:26 Which was the son of Maath, which was the son
of Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which was the son of
Joseph, which was the son of Juda, 3:27 Which was the son of Joanna,
which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which was
the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri, 3:28 Which was the
son of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam,
which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er, 3:29 Which was
the son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of
Jorim, which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, 3:30
Which was the son of Simeon, which was the son of Juda, which was the
son of Joseph, which was the son of Jonan, which was the son of
Eliakim, 3:31 Which was the son of Melea, which was the son of Menan,
which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of Nathan, which was
the son of David, 3:32 Which was the son of Jesse, which was the son
of Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, which
was the son of Naasson, 3:33 Which was the son of Aminadab, which was
the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of
Phares, which was the son of Juda, 3:34 Which was the son of Jacob,
which was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was
the son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor, 3:35 Which was the son
of Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec,
which was the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala, 3:36 Which was
the son of Cainan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of
Sem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech, 3:37 Which
was the son of Mathusala, which was the son of Enoch, which was the
son of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son of
Cainan, 3:38 Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth,
which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.

4:1 And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and
was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, 4:2 Being forty days
tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when
they were ended, he afterward hungered.

4:3 And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command
this stone that it be made bread.

4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not
live by bread alone, but by every word of God.

4:5 And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto
him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.

4:6 And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and
the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I
will I give it.

4:7 If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.

4:8 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan:
for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only
shalt thou serve.

4:9 And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the
temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself
down from hence: 4:10 For it is written, He shall give his angels
charge over thee, to keep thee: 4:11 And in their hands they shall
bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.

4:12 And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not
tempt the Lord thy God.

4:13 And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from
him for a season.

4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and
there went out a fame of him through all the region round about.

4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.

4:16 And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as
his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and
stood up for to read.

4:17 And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias.
And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was
written, 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath
anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal
the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and
recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are
bruised, 4:19 To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.

4:20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and
sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were
fastened on him.

4:21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture
fulfilled in your ears.

4:22 And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words
which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's
son?  4:23 And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this
proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in
Capernaum, do also here in thy country.

4:24 And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his
own country.

4:25 But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days
of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when
great famine was throughout all the land; 4:26 But unto none of them
was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that
was a widow.

4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the
prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.

4:28 And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were
filled with wrath, 4:29 And rose up, and thrust him out of the city,
and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built,
that they might cast him down headlong.

4:30 But he passing through the midst of them went his way, 4:31 And
came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the
sabbath days.

4:32 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with
power.

4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an
unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, 4:34 Saying, Let us
alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou
come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.

4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of
him.

And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him,
and hurt him not.

4:36 And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying,
What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the
unclean spirits, and they come out.

4:37 And the fame of him went out into every place of the country
round about.

4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's
house.

And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they
besought him for her.

4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her:
and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.

4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with
divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every
one of them, and healed them.

4:41 And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou
art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to
speak: for they knew that he was Christ.

4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place:
and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he
should not depart from them.

4:43 And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other
cities also: for therefore am I sent.

4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.

5:1 And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear
the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret, 5:2 And saw two
ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them,
and were washing their nets.

5:3 And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and
prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat
down, and taught the people out of the ship.

5:4 Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into
the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.

5:5 And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the
night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let
down the net.

5:6 And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of
fishes: and their net brake.

5:7 And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other
ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled
both the ships, so that they began to sink.

5:8 When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying,
Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.

5:9 For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught
of the fishes which they had taken: 5:10 And so was also James, and
John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus
said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.

5:11 And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all,
and followed him.

5:12 And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man
full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him,
saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

5:13 And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be
thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.

5:14 And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to
the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded,
for a testimony unto them.

5:15 But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great
multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their
infirmities.

5:16 And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed.

5:17 And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that
there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were
come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the
power of the Lord was present to heal them.

5:18 And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a
palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before
him.

5:19 And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in
because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him
down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.

5:20 And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are
forgiven thee.

5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is
this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
5:22 But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto
them, What reason ye in your hearts?  5:23 Whether is easier, to say,
Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?  5:24 But that
ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins,
(he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take
up thy couch, and go into thine house.

5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon
he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.

5:26 And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled
with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.

5:27 And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named
Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow
me.

5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.

5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a
great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.

5:30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples,
saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?  5:31 And
Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a
physician; but they that are sick.

5:32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

5:33 And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often,
and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but
thine eat and drink?  5:34 And he said unto them, Can ye make the
children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
5:35 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away
from them, and then shall they fast in those days.

5:36 And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of
a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a
rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the
old.

5:37 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine
will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish.

5:38 But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are
preserved.

5:39 No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for
he saith, The old is better.

6:1 And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he
went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of
corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.

6:2 And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which
is not lawful to do on the sabbath days?  6:3 And Jesus answering them
said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself
was an hungred, and they which were with him; 6:4 How he went into the
house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to
them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the
priests alone?  6:5 And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord
also of the sabbath.

6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into
the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was
withered.

6:7 And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal
on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.

6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the
withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and
stood forth.

6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful
on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to
destroy it?  6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said unto
the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was
restored whole as the other.

6:11 And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another
what they might do to Jesus.

6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a
mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.

6:13 And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of
them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whom
he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip
and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus,
and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of James, and
Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.

6:17 And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the
company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all
Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which
came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And they
that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.

6:19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went
virtue out of him, and healed them all.

6:20 And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be
ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.

6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessed
are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.

6:22 Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall
separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out
your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.

6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your
reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers
unto the prophets.

6:24 But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your
consolation.

6:25 Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you
that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.

6:26 Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did
their fathers to the false prophets.

6:27 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them
which hate you, 6:28 Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
which despitefully use you.

6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the
other; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat
also.

6:30 Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh
away thy goods ask them not again.

6:31 And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them
likewise.

6:32 For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for
sinners also love those that love them.

6:33 And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have
ye?  for sinners also do even the same.

6:34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank
have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.

6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for
nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the
children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the
evil.

6:36 Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.

6:37 Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall
not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: 6:38 Give, and it
shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken
together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with
the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you
again.

6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind?
shall they not both fall into the ditch?  6:40 The disciple is not
above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his
master.

6:41 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but
perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  6:42 Either how
canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that
is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in
thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine
own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is
in thy brother's eye.

6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.

6:44 For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do
not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.

6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth
that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his
heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the
heart his mouth speaketh.

6:46 And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I
say?  6:47 Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth
them, I will shew you to whom he is like: 6:48 He is like a man which
built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock:
and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house,
and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.

6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a
foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did
beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house
was great.

7:1 Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the
people, he entered into Capernaum.

7:2 And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was
sick, and ready to die.

7:3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the
Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant.

7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying,
That he was worthy for whom he should do this: 7:5 For he loveth our
nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.

7:6 Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the
house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord,
trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter
under my roof: 7:7 Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come
unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed.

7:8 For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers,
and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he
cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

7:9 When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him
about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I
have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.

7:10 And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the
servant whole that had been sick.

7:11 And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city
called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.

7:12 Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was
a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a
widow: and much people of the city was with her.

7:13 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said
unto her, Weep not.

7:14 And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood
still.

And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.

7:15 And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered
him to his mother.

7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying,
That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited
his people.

7:17 And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and
throughout all the region round about.

7:18 And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things.

7:19 And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to
Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?
7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath
sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we
for another?  7:21 And in that same hour he cured many of their
infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were
blind he gave sight.

7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John
what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame
walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to
the poor the gospel is preached.

7:23 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.

7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak
unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness
for to see?  A reed shaken with the wind?  7:25 But what went ye out
for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment?  Behold, they which are
gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts.

7:26 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you,
and much more than a prophet.

7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger
before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.

7:28 For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is
not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in
the kingdom of God is greater than he.

7:29 And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified
God, being baptized with the baptism of John.

7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against
themselves, being not baptized of him.

7:31 And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this
generation? and to what are they like?  7:32 They are like unto
children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and
saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have
mourned to you, and ye have not wept.

7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine;
and ye say, He hath a devil.

7:34 The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a
gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!
7:35 But wisdom is justified of all her children.

7:36 And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him.
And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat.

7:37 And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she
knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an
alabaster box of ointment, 7:38 And stood at his feet behind him
weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with
the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the
ointment.

7:39 Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake
within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have
known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she
is a sinner.

7:40 And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say
unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.

7:41 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed
five hundred pence, and the other fifty.

7:42 And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both.
Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?  7:43 Simon
answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most.

And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.

7:44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this
woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my
feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the
hairs of her head.

7:45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in
hath not ceased to kiss my feet.

7:46 My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath
anointed my feet with ointment.

7:47 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are
forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same
loveth little.

7:48 And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.

7:49 And they that sat at meat with him began to say within
themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?  7:50 And he said to
the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.

8:1 And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city
and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of
God: and the twelve were with him, 8:2 And certain women, which had
been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene,
out of whom went seven devils, 8:3 And Joanna the wife of Chuza
Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto
him of their substance.

8:4 And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him
out of every city, he spake by a parable: 8:5 A sower went out to sow
his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was
trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.

8:6 And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it
withered away, because it lacked moisture.

8:7 And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and
choked it.

8:8 And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an
hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath
ears to hear, let him hear.

8:9 And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
8:10 And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the
kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not
see, and hearing they might not understand.

8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.

8:12 Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil,
and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe
and be saved.

8:13 They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the
word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and
in time of temptation fall away.

8:14 And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have
heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of
this life, and bring no fruit to perfection.

8:15 But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good
heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with
patience.

8:16 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel,
or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they
which enter in may see the light.

8:17 For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neither
any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.

8:18 Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall
be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that
which he seemeth to have.

8:19 Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come
at him for the press.

8:20 And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy
brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.

8:21 And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are
these which hear the word of God, and do it.

8:22 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship
with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the
other side of the lake. And they launched forth.

8:23 But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of
wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in
jeopardy.

8:24 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we
perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the
water: and they ceased, and there was a calm.

8:25 And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid
wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for he
commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him.

8:26 And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over
against Galilee.

8:27 And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a
certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither
abode in any house, but in the tombs.

8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and
with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son
of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.

8:29 (For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man.
For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains
and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil
into the wilderness.)  8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy
name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him.

8:31 And they besought him that he would not command them to go out
into the deep.

8:32 And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the
mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter
into them. And he suffered them.

8:33 Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine:
and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were
choked.

8:34 When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went
and told it in the city and in the country.

8:35 Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and
found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the
feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.

8:36 They also which saw it told them by what means he that was
possessed of the devils was healed.

8:37 Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round
about besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great
fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again.

8:38 Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him
that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying, 8:39
Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath done
unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole
city how great things Jesus had done unto him.

8:40 And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people
gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.

8:41 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of
the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that
he would come into his house: 8:42 For he had one only daughter, about
twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people
thronged him.

8:43 And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had
spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,
8:44 Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and
immediately her issue of blood stanched.

8:45 And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they
that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press
thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  8:46 And Jesus said, Somebody
hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.

8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling,
and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the
people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed
immediately.

8:48 And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith
hath made thee whole; go in peace.

8:49 While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the
synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not
the Master.

8:50 But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not:
believe only, and she shall be made whole.

8:51 And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in,
save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the
maiden.

8:52 And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not
dead, but sleepeth.

8:53 And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.

8:54 And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called,
saying, Maid, arise.

8:55 And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he
commanded to give her meat.

8:56 And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they
should tell no man what was done.

9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power
and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.

9:2 And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the
sick.

9:3 And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither
staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two
coats apiece.

9:4 And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence
depart.

9:5 And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city,
shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.

9:6 And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the
gospel, and healing every where.

9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he
was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen
from the dead; 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of
others, that one of the old prophets was risen again.

9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I
hear such things? And he desired to see him.

9:10 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they
had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert
place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.

9:11 And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received
them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that
had need of healing.

9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and
said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the
towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are
here in a desert place.

9:13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We
have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and
buy meat for all this people.

9:14 For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his
disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.

9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down.

9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up
to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to
set before the multitude.

9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up of
fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.

9:18 And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were
with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?
9:19 They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and
others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.

9:20 He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering
said, The Christ of God.

9:21 And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man
that thing; 9:22 Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and
be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain,
and be raised the third day.

9:23 And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him
deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.

9:24 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever
will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.

9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and
lose himself, or be cast away?  9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed of
me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he
shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy
angels.

9:27 But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, which
shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.

9:28 And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he
took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.

9:29 And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and
his raiment was white and glistering.

9:30 And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and
Elias: 9:31 Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he
should accomplish at Jerusalem.

9:32 But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: and
when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood
with him.

9:33 And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said unto
Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three
tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not
knowing what he said.

9:34 While he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them:
and they feared as they entered into the cloud.

9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my
beloved Son: hear him.

9:36 And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept
it close, and told no man in those days any of those things which they
had seen.

9:37 And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come
down from the hill, much people met him.

9:38 And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I
beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child.

9:39 And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it
teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth
from him.

9:40 And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.

9:41 And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation,
how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.

9:42 And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare
him.

And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and
delivered him again to his father.

9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while
they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said unto
his disciples, 9:44 Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for
the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.

9:45 But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them,
that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.

9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be
greatest.

9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child,
and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive
this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me
receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the
same shall be great.

9:49 And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils
in thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with us.

9:50 And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not
against us is for us.

9:51 And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be
received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52 And
sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a
village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.

9:53 And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he
would go to Jerusalem.

9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord,
wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume
them, even as Elias did?  9:55 But he turned, and rebuked them, and
said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.

9:56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to
save them. And they went to another village.

9:57 And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man
said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.

9:58 And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air
have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.

9:59 And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me
first to go and bury my father.

9:60 Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou
and preach the kingdom of God.

9:61 And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first
go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.

9:62 And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the
plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.

10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and
sent them two and two before his face into every city and place,
whither he himself would come.

10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the
labourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he
would send forth labourers into his harvest.

10:3 Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.

10:4 Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by
the way.

10:5 And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this
house.

10:6 And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it:
if not, it shall turn to you again.

10:7 And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as
they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house
to house.

10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such
things as are set before you: 10:9 And heal the sick that are therein,
and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.

10:10 But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go
your ways out into the streets of the same, and say, 10:11 Even the
very dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against
you: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is
come nigh unto you.

10:12 But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that day
for Sodom, than for that city.

10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the
mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in
you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and
ashes.

10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the
judgment, than for you.

10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be
thrust down to hell.

10:16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you
despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.

10:17 And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the
devils are subject unto us through thy name.

10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven.

10:19 Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and
scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by
any means hurt you.

10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits are
subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written
in heaven.

10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so,
Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.

10:22 All things are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth
who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son,
and he to whom the Son will reveal him.

10:23 And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately,
Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see: 10:24 For I
tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those
things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things
which ye hear, and have not heard them.

10:25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying,
Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?  10:26 He said unto
him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?  10:27 And he
answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy
mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.

10:28 And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and
thou shalt live.

10:29 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is
my neighbour?  10:30 And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down
from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him
of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.

10:31 And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and
when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.

10:32 And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked
on him, and passed by on the other side.

10:33 But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and
when he saw him, he had compassion on him, 10:34 And went to him, and
bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own
beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.

10:35 And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and
gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and
whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.

10:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him
that fell among the thieves?  10:37 And he said, He that shewed mercy
on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.

10:38 Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a
certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into
her house.

10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet,
and heard his word.

10:40 But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, and
said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve
alone?  bid her therefore that she help me.

10:41 And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art
careful and troubled about many things: 10:42 But one thing is
needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken
away from her.

11:1 And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place,
when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to
pray, as John also taught his disciples.

11:2 And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as
in heaven, so in earth.

11:3 Give us day by day our daily bread.

11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is
indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from
evil.

11:5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and
shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three
loaves; 11:6 For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I
have nothing to set before him?  11:7 And he from within shall answer
and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are
with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.

11:8 I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he
is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give
him as many as he needeth.

11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye
shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

11:10 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh
findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.

11:11 If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he
give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a
serpent?  11:12 Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a
scorpion?  11:13 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts
unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the
Holy Spirit to them that ask him?  11:14 And he was casting out a
devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone
out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.

11:15 But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub
the chief of the devils.

11:16 And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.

11:17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom
divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house divided
against a house falleth.

11:18 If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom
stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.

11:19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast
them out? therefore shall they be your judges.

11:20 But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the
kingdom of God is come upon you.

11:21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in
peace: 11:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and
overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted,
and divideth his spoils.

11:23 He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth not
with me scattereth.

11:24 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through
dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return
unto my house whence I came out.

11:25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.

11:26 Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked
than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state
of that man is worse than the first.

11:27 And it came to pass, as he spake these things, a certain woman
of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the
womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.

11:28 But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of
God, and keep it.

11:29 And when the people were gathered thick together, he began to
say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no
sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.

11:30 For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the
Son of man be to this generation.

11:31 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the
men of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the utmost
parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a
greater than Solomon is here.

11:32 The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this
generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching
of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.

11:33 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret
place, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which
come in may see the light.

11:34 The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is
single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is
evil, thy body also is full of darkness.

11:35 Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not
darkness.

11:36 If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part
dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of
a candle doth give thee light.

11:37 And as he spake, a certain Pharisee besought him to dine with
him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.

11:38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first
washed before dinner.

11:39 And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean the
outside of the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full of
ravening and wickedness.

11:40 Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make that
which is within also?  11:41 But rather give alms of such things as ye
have; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.

11:42 But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and all
manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God: these
ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.

11:43 Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the
synagogues, and greetings in the markets.

11:44 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are as
graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not aware
of them.

11:45 Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Master,
thus saying thou reproachest us also.

11:46 And he said, Woe unto you also, ye lawyers! for ye lade men with
burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens
with one of your fingers.

11:47 Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and
your fathers killed them.

11:48 Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers:
for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.

11:49 Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send them prophets
and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute: 11:50
That the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation
of the world, may be required of this generation; 11:51 From the blood
of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias which perished between the altar
and the temple: verily I say unto you, It shall be required of this
generation.

11:52 Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of
knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering
in ye hindered.

11:53 And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the
Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of
many things: 11:54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something
out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.

12:1 In the mean time, when there were gathered together an
innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one upon
another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of
the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

12:2 For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither
hid, that shall not be known.

12:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in
the light; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall
be proclaimed upon the housetops.

12:4 And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill
the body, and after that have no more that they can do.

12:5 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after
he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear
him.

12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them
is forgotten before God?  12:7 But even the very hairs of your head
are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many
sparrows.

12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him
shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God: 12:9 But
he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels of
God.

12:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it
shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy
Ghost it shall not be forgiven.

12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto
magistrates, and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall
answer, or what ye shall say: 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you
in the same hour what ye ought to say.

12:13 And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my
brother, that he divide the inheritance with me.

12:14 And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over
you?  12:15 And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of
covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the
things which he possesseth.

12:16 And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a
certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 12:17 And he thought
within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where
to bestow my fruits?  12:18 And he said, This will I do: I will pull
down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my
fruits and my goods.

12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up
for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.

12:20 But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be
required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast
provided?  12:21 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is
not rich toward God.

12:22 And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take
no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body,
what ye shall put on.

12:23 The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.

12:24 Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which
neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more
are ye better than the fowls?  12:25 And which of you with taking
thought can add to his stature one cubit?  12:26 If ye then be not
able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the
rest?  12:27 Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they
spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was
not arrayed like one of these.

12:28 If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field,
and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you,
O ye of little faith?  12:29 And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or
what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.

12:30 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and
your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.

12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things
shall be added unto you.

12:32 Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to
give you the kingdom.

12:33 Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags which
wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no
thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.

12:34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

12:35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; 12:36
And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will
return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may
open unto him immediately.

12:37 Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall
find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and
make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them.

12:38 And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third
watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.

12:39 And this know, that if the goodman of the house had known what
hour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not have
suffered his house to be broken through.

12:40 Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour
when ye think not.

12:41 Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto
us, or even to all?  12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is that
faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his
household, to give them their portion of meat in due season?  12:43
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so
doing.

12:44 Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all
that he hath.

12:45 But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his
coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and to
eat and drink, and to be drunken; 12:46 The lord of that servant will
come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is
not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his
portion with the unbelievers.

12:47 And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not
himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many
stripes.

12:48 But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes,
shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given,
of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of
him they will ask the more.

12:49 I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be
already kindled?  12:50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and
how am I straitened till it be accomplished!  12:51 Suppose ye that I
am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:
12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided,
three against two, and two against three.

12:53 The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against
the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against
the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the
daughter in law against her mother in law.

12:54 And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of
the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it is.

12:55 And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heat;
and it cometh to pass.

12:56 Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the
earth; but how is it that ye do not discern this time?  12:57 Yea, and
why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?  12:58 When thou
goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way,
give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he hale
thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the
officer cast thee into prison.

12:59 I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast paid
the very last mite.

13:1 There were present at that season some that told him of the
Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.

13:2 And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these
Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they
suffered such things?  13:3 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye
shall all likewise perish.

13:4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew
them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in
Jerusalem?  13:5 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all
likewise perish.

13:6 He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted
in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.

13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these
three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut
it down; why cumbereth it the ground?  13:8 And he answering said unto
him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and
dung it: 13:9 And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that
thou shalt cut it down.

13:10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.

13:11 And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity
eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up
herself.

13:12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her,
Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.

13:13 And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made
straight, and glorified God.

13:14 And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation,
because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the
people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them
therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.

13:15 The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not
each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall,
and lead him away to watering?  13:16 And ought not this woman, being
a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen
years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?  13:17 And when he
had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the
people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.

13:18 Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? and
whereunto shall I resemble it?  13:19 It is like a grain of mustard
seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and
waxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of
it.

13:20 And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures
of meal, till the whole was leavened.

13:22 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and
journeying toward Jerusalem.

13:23 Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And
he said unto them, 13:24 Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for
many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.

13:25 When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to
the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door,
saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto
you, I know you not whence ye are: 13:26 Then shall ye begin to say,
We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our
streets.

13:27 But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are;
depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.

13:28 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of
God, and you yourselves thrust out.

13:29 And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from
the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of
God.

13:30 And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are
first which shall be last.

13:31 The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto
him, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee.

13:32 And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast
out devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day I
shall be perfected.

13:33 Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the day
following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.

13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest
them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy
children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and
ye would not!  13:35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and
verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when
ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

14:1 And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the
chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watched
him.

14:2 And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the
dropsy.

14:3 And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying,
Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?  14:4 And they held their
peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go; 14:5 And
answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen
into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?
14:6 And they could not answer him again to these things.

14:7 And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he
marked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them.

14:8 When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the
highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him;
14:9 And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man
place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room.

14:10 But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room;
that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go
up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that
sit at meat with thee.

14:11 For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that
humbleth himself shall be exalted.

14:12 Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a
dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither
thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again,
and a recompence be made thee.

14:13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the
lame, the blind: 14:14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot
recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of
the just.

14:15 And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these
things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the
kingdom of God.

14:16 Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and
bade many: 14:17 And sent his servant at supper time to say to them
that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.

14:18 And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first
said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go
and see it: I pray thee have me excused.

14:19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to
prove them: I pray thee have me excused.

14:20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot
come.

14:21 So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then the
master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly
into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor,
and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.

14:22 And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded,
and yet there is room.

14:23 And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and
hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.

14:24 For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden
shall taste of my supper.

14:25 And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and
said unto them, 14:26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father,
and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea,
and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.

14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot
be my disciple.

14:28 For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down
first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?
14:29 Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able
to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, 14:30 Saying, This
man began to build, and was not able to finish.

14:31 Or what king, going to make war against another king, sitteth
not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to
meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?  14:32 Or else,
while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, and
desireth conditions of peace.

14:33 So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that
he hath, he cannot be my disciple.

14:34 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith
shall it be seasoned?  14:35 It is neither fit for the land, nor yet
for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let
him hear.

15:1 Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear
him.

15:2 And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man
receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.

15:3 And he spake this parable unto them, saying, 15:4 What man of
you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave
the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is
lost, until he find it?  15:5 And when he hath found it, he layeth it
on his shoulders, rejoicing.

15:6 And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and
neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my
sheep which was lost.

15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one
sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons,
which need no repentance.

15:8 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one
piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek
diligently till she find it?  15:9 And when she hath found it, she
calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with
me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.

15:10 Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the
angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.

15:11 And he said, A certain man had two sons: 15:12 And the younger
of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that
falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.

15:13 And not many days after the younger son gathered all together,
and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his
substance with riotous living.

15:14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that
land; and he began to be in want.

15:15 And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and
he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

15:16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the
swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

15:17 And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of
my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!
15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father,
I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, 15:19 And am no more
worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.

15:20 And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a
great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and
fell on his neck, and kissed him.

15:21 And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven,
and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.

15:22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe,
and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:
15:23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat,
and be merry: 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he
was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.

15:25 Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh
to the house, he heard musick and dancing.

15:26 And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things
meant.

15:27 And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath
killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.

15:28 And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father
out, and intreated him.

15:29 And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I
serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and
yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my
friends: 15:30 But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath
devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted
calf.

15:31 And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I
have is thine.

15:32 It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy
brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

16:1 And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich
man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he
had wasted his goods.

16:2 And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this
of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no
longer steward.

16:3 Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my
lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am
ashamed.

16:4 I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the
stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.

16:5 So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said
unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?  16:6 And he said,
An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and
sit down quickly, and write fifty.

16:7 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An
hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and
write fourscore.

16:8 And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done
wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser
than the children of light.

16:9 And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of
unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into
everlasting habitations.

16:10 He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in
much: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.

16:11 If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous
mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?  16:12 And if
ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall
give you that which is your own?  16:13 No servant can serve two
masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else
he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God
and mammon.

16:14 And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these
things: and they derided him.

16:15 And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves
before men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly
esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.

16:16 The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the
kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.

16:17 And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle
of the law to fail.

16:18 Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another,
committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from
her husband committeth adultery.

16:19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and
fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day: 16:20 And there was a
certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of
sores, 16:21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from
the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

16:22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by
the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was
buried; 16:23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and
seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.

16:24 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and
send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool
my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.

16:25 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime
receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now
he is comforted, and thou art tormented.

16:26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf
fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither
can they pass to us, that would come from thence.

16:27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest
send him to my father's house: 16:28 For I have five brethren; that he
may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.

16:29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let
them hear them.

16:30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from
the dead, they will repent.

16:31 And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets,
neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

17:1 Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that
offences will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!  17:2 It
were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and
he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little
ones.

17:3 Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee,
rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.

17:4 And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven
times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt
forgive him.

17:5 And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.

17:6 And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye
might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and
be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.

17:7 But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle,
will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and
sit down to meat?  17:8 And will not rather say unto him, Make ready
wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten
and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?  17:9 Doth he
thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?
I trow not.

17:10 So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which
are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done
that which was our duty to do.

17:11 And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed
through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.

17:12 And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men
that were lepers, which stood afar off: 17:13 And they lifted up their
voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.

17:14 And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto
the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were
cleansed.

17:15 And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back,
and with a loud voice glorified God, 17:16 And fell down on his face
at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.

17:17 And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where
are the nine?  17:18 There are not found that returned to give glory
to God, save this stranger.

17:19 And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made
thee whole.

17:20 And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of
God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh
not with observation: 17:21 Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo
there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.

17:22 And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye
shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall
not see it.

17:23 And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after
them, nor follow them.

17:24 For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under
heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the
Son of man be in his day.

17:25 But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this
generation.

17:26 And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the
days of the Son of man.

17:27 They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in
marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood
came, and destroyed them all.

17:28 Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they
drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; 17:29 But
the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone
from heaven, and destroyed them all.

17:30 Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is
revealed.

17:31 In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff
in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in
the field, let him likewise not return back.

17:32 Remember Lot's wife.

17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and
whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.

17:34 I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the
one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.

17:35 Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken,
and the other left.

17:36 Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the
other left.

17:37 And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said
unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be
gathered together.

18:1 And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought
always to pray, and not to faint; 18:2 Saying, There was in a city a
judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: 18:3 And there was
a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine
adversary.

18:4 And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within
himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; 18:5 Yet because this
widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming
she weary me.

18:6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.

18:7 And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night
unto him, though he bear long with them?  18:8 I tell you that he will
avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall
he find faith on the earth?  18:9 And he spake this parable unto
certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and
despised others: 18:10 Two men went up into the temple to pray; the
one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.

18:11 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank
thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust,
adulterers, or even as this publican.

18:12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.

18:13 And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much
as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be
merciful to me a sinner.

18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather
than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased;
and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

18:15 And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch
them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.

18:16 But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children
to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of
God.

18:17 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom
of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.

18:18 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I
do to inherit eternal life?  18:19 And Jesus said unto him, Why
callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.

18:20 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not
kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and
thy mother.

18:21 And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.

18:22 Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest
thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor,
and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.

18:23 And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very
rich.

18:24 And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How
hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than
for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

18:26 And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?  18:27 And
he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with
God.

18:28 Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.

18:29 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man
that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children,
for the kingdom of God's sake, 18:30 Who shall not receive manifold
more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.

18:31 Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we
go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets
concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.

18:32 For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be
mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on: 18:33 And they shall
scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise
again.

18:34 And they understood none of these things: and this saying was
hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken.

18:35 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a
certain blind man sat by the way side begging: 18:36 And hearing the
multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.

18:37 And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.

18:38 And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on
me.

18:39 And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his
peace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on
me.

18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and
when he was come near, he asked him, 18:41 Saying, What wilt thou that
I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.

18:42 And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved
thee.

18:43 And immediately he received his sight, and followed him,
glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto
God.

19:1 And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.

19:2 And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief
among the publicans, and he was rich.

19:3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the
press, because he was little of stature.

19:4 And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see
him: for he was to pass that way.

19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and
said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must
abide at thy house.

19:6 And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.

19:7 And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone
to be guest with a man that is a sinner.

19:8 And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the
half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing
from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.

19:9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this
house, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.

19:10 For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was
lost.

19:11 And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable,
because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the
kingdom of God should immediately appear.

19:12 He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to
receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.

19:13 And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds,
and said unto them, Occupy till I come.

19:14 But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him,
saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.

19:15 And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having received
the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him,
to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man
had gained by trading.

19:16 Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten
pounds.

19:17 And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast
been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.

19:18 And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five
pounds.

19:19 And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.

19:20 And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which
I have kept laid up in a napkin: 19:21 For I feared thee, because thou
art an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, and
reapest that thou didst not sow.

19:22 And he saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee,
thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up
that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow: 19:23 Wherefore
then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might
have required mine own with usury?  19:24 And he said unto them that
stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath ten
pounds.

19:25 (And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)  19:26 For I
say unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and from
him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.

19:27 But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over
them, bring hither, and slay them before me.

19:28 And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to
Jerusalem.

19:29 And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and
Bethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his
disciples, 19:30 Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in
the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet
never man sat: loose him, and bring him hither.

19:31 And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say
unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.

19:32 And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had
said unto them.

19:33 And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto
them, Why loose ye the colt?  19:34 And they said, The Lord hath need
of him.

19:35 And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments upon
the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.

19:36 And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way.

19:37 And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mount
of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and
praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had
seen; 19:38 Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the
Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.

19:39 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto
him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.

19:40 And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these
should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.

19:41 And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it,
19:42 Saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy
day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from
thine eyes.

19:43 For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast
a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every
side, 19:44 And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children
within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another;
because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.

19:45 And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that
sold therein, and them that bought; 19:46 Saying unto them, It is
written, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of
thieves.

19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the
scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, 19:48 And
could not find what they might do: for all the people were very
attentive to hear him.

20:1 And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught the
people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and
the scribes came upon him with the elders, 20:2 And spake unto him,
saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who is
he that gave thee this authority?  20:3 And he answered and said unto
them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me: 20:4 The baptism
of John, was it from heaven, or of men?  20:5 And they reasoned with
themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why
then believed ye him not?  20:6 But and if we say, Of men; all the
people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.

20:7 And they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.

20:8 And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I
do these things.

20:9 Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain man
planted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into a
far country for a long time.

20:10 And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they
should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat
him, and sent him away empty.

20:11 And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and
entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.

20:12 And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and cast
him out.

20:13 Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send
my beloved son: it may be they will reverence him when they see him.

20:14 But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves,
saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance
may be ours.

20:15 So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What
therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?  20:16 He shall
come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to
others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.

20:17 And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written,
The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of
the corner?  20:18 Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be
broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.

20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to
lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived that
he had spoken this parable against them.

20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign
themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so
they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.

20:21 And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and
teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but
teachest the way of God truly: 20:22 Is it lawful for us to give
tribute unto Caesar, or no?  20:23 But he perceived their craftiness,
and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?  20:24 Shew me a penny. Whose
image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's.

20:25 And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things
which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's.

20:26 And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and
they marvelled at his answer, and held their peace.

20:27 Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there
is any resurrection; and they asked him, 20:28 Saying, Master, Moses
wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die
without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up
seed unto his brother.

20:29 There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife,
and died without children.

20:30 And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.

20:31 And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and
they left no children, and died.

20:32 Last of all the woman died also.

20:33 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for
seven had her to wife.

20:34 And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world
marry, and are given in marriage: 20:35 But they which shall be
accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the
dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: 20:36 Neither can they
die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children
of God, being the children of the resurrection.

20:37 Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush,
when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and
the God of Jacob.

20:38 For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live
unto him.

20:39 Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast
well said.

20:40 And after that they durst not ask him any question at all.

20:41 And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son?
20:42 And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD said
unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 20:43 Till I make thine
enemies thy footstool.

20:44 David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son?  20:45
Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,
20:46 Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and
love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the
synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts; 20:47 Which devour widows'
houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receive
greater damnation.

21:1 And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into
the treasury.

21:2 And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two
mites.

21:3 And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath
cast in more than they all: 21:4 For all these have of their abundance
cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in
all the living that she had.

21:5 And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly
stones and gifts, he said, 21:6 As for these things which ye behold,
the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone
upon another, that shall not be thrown down.

21:7 And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things
be?  and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?
21:8 And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall
come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye
not therefore after them.

21:9 But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified:
for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not by and
by.

21:10 Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and
kingdom against kingdom: 21:11 And great earthquakes shall be in
divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and
great signs shall there be from heaven.

21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and
persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons,
being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.

21:13 And it shall turn to you for a testimony.

21:14 Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what
ye shall answer: 21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which
all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.

21:16 And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and
kinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to
death.

21:17 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.

21:18 But there shall not an hair of your head perish.

21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.

21:20 And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know
that the desolation thereof is nigh.

21:21 Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let
them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that
are in the countries enter thereinto.

21:22 For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are
written may be fulfilled.

21:23 But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give
suck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land,
and wrath upon this people.

21:24 And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led
away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of
the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.

21:25 And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the
stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the
sea and the waves roaring; 21:26 Men's hearts failing them for fear,
and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for
the powers of heaven shall be shaken.

21:27 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with
power and great glory.

21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and
lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.

21:29 And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the
trees; 21:30 When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own
selves that summer is now nigh at hand.

21:31 So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye
that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.

21:32 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till
all be fulfilled.

21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass
away.

21:34 And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be
overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life,
and so that day come upon you unawares.

21:35 For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face
of the whole earth.

21:36 Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted
worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to
stand before the Son of man.

21:37 And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night
he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of
Olives.

21:38 And all the people came early in the morning to him in the
temple, for to hear him.

22:1 Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the
Passover.

22:2 And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him;
for they feared the people.

22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the
number of the twelve.

22:4 And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and
captains, how he might betray him unto them.

22:5 And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.

22:6 And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them
in the absence of the multitude.

22:7 Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be
killed.

22:8 And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us the
passover, that we may eat.

22:9 And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?  22:10
And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city,
there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him
into the house where he entereth in.

22:11 And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith
unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover
with my disciples?  22:12 And he shall shew you a large upper room
furnished: there make ready.

22:13 And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made
ready the passover.

22:14 And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles
with him.

22:15 And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this
passover with you before I suffer: 22:16 For I say unto you, I will
not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.

22:17 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and
divide it among yourselves: 22:18 For I say unto you, I will not drink
of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.

22:19 And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto
them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in
remembrance of me.

22:20 Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new
testament in my blood, which is shed for you.

22:21 But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the
table.

22:22 And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woe
unto that man by whom he is betrayed!  22:23 And they began to enquire
among themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing.

22:24 And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be
accounted the greatest.

22:25 And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise
lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are
called benefactors.

22:26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let
him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.

22:27 For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that
serveth?  is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he
that serveth.

22:28 Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.

22:29 And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed
unto me; 22:30 That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom,
and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

22:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to
have you, that he may sift you as wheat: 22:32 But I have prayed for
thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen
thy brethren.

22:33 And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both
into prison, and to death.

22:34 And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this
day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.

22:35 And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip,
and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.

22:36 Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him
take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him
sell his garment, and buy one.

22:37 For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be
accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: for
the things concerning me have an end.

22:38 And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said
unto them, It is enough.

22:39 And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of
Olives; and his disciples also followed him.

22:40 And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye
enter not into temptation.

22:41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled
down, and prayed, 22:42 Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove
this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.

22:43 And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening
him.

22:44 And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat
was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.

22:45 And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples,
he found them sleeping for sorrow, 22:46 And said unto them, Why sleep
ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.

22:47 And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was
called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto
Jesus to kiss him.

22:48 But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man
with a kiss?  22:49 When they which were about him saw what would
follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?
22:50 And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut
off his right ear.

22:51 And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched
his ear, and healed him.

22:52 Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the
temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as
against a thief, with swords and staves?  22:53 When I was daily with
you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is
your hour, and the power of darkness.

22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the high
priest's house. And Peter followed afar off.

22:55 And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and
were set down together, Peter sat down among them.

22:56 But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and
earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him.

22:57 And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.

22:58 And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art
also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.

22:59 And about the space of one hour after another confidently
affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is
a Galilaean.

22:60 And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And
immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.

22:61 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered
the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow,
thou shalt deny me thrice.

22:62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.

22:63 And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.

22:64 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face,
and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?  22:65 And
many other things blasphemously spake they against him.

22:66 And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the
chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their
council, saying, 22:67 Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto
them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68 And if I also ask you,
ye will not answer me, nor let me go.

22:69 Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the
power of God.

22:70 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said
unto them, Ye say that I am.

22:71 And they said, What need we any further witness? for we
ourselves have heard of his own mouth.

23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.

23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow
perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himself is Christ a King.

23:3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And
he answered him and said, Thou sayest it.

23:4 Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find
no fault in this man.

23:5 And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people,
teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place.

23:6 When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a
Galilaean.

23:7 And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's
jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem
at that time.

23:8 And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was
desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things
of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.

23:9 Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him
nothing.

23:10 And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused
him.

23:11 And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him,
and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.

23:12 And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together:
for before they were at enmity between themselves.

23:13 And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and
the rulers and the people, 23:14 Said unto them, Ye have brought this
man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having
examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching
those things whereof ye accuse him: 23:15 No, nor yet Herod: for I
sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.

23:16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him.

23:17 (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)
23:18 And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and
release unto us Barabbas: 23:19 (Who for a certain sedition made in
the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.)  23:20 Pilate
therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.

23:21 But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.

23:22 And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he
done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise
him, and let him go.

23:23 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might
be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests
prevailed.

23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.

23:25 And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was
cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to
their will.

23:26 And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a
Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross,
that he might bear it after Jesus.

23:27 And there followed him a great company of people, and of women,
which also bewailed and lamented him.

23:28 But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep
not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.

23:29 For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say,
Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps
which never gave suck.

23:30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and
to the hills, Cover us.

23:31 For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done
in the dry?  23:32 And there were also two other, malefactors, led
with him to be put to death.

23:33 And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary,
there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand,
and the other on the left.

23:34 Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what
they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.

23:35 And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them
derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be
Christ, the chosen of God.

23:36 And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering
him vinegar, 23:37 And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save
thyself.

23:38 And a superscription also was written over him in letters of
Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

23:39 And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him,
saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.

23:40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear
God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?  23:41 And we indeed
justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath
done nothing amiss.

23:42 And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into
thy kingdom.

23:43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt
thou be with me in paradise.

23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over
all the earth until the ninth hour.

23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in
the midst.

23:46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father,
into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up
the ghost.

23:47 Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God,
saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.

23:48 And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding
the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned.

23:49 And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from
Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.

23:50 And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he
was a good man, and a just: 23:51 (The same had not consented to the
counsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews:
who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.

23:52 This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.

23:53 And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a
sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.

23:54 And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on.

23:55 And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed
after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.

23:56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested
the sabbath day according to the commandment.

24:1 Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning,
they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had
prepared, and certain others with them.

24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.

24:3 And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.

24:4 And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout,
behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: 24:5 And as they
were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto
them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?  24:6 He is not here, but
is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,
24:7 Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful
men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.

24:8 And they remembered his words, 24:9 And returned from the
sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the
rest.

24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James,
and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the
apostles.

24:11 And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed
them not.

24:12 Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down,
he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed,
wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.

24:13 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called
Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.

24:14 And they talked together of all these things which had happened.

24:15 And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and
reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.

24:16 But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.

24:17 And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these
that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?  24:18 And the
one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou
only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are
come to pass there in these days?  24:19 And he said unto them, What
things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which
was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
24:20 And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be
condemned to death, and have crucified him.

24:21 But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed
Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these
things were done.

24:22 Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished,
which were early at the sepulchre; 24:23 And when they found not his
body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels,
which said that he was alive.

24:24 And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre,
and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.

24:25 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe
all that the prophets have spoken: 24:26 Ought not Christ to have
suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?  24:27 And
beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all
the scriptures the things concerning himself.

24:28 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he
made as though he would have gone further.

24:29 But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is
toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with
them.

24:30 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread,
and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.

24:31 And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished
out of their sight.

24:32 And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us,
while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the
scriptures?  24:33 And they rose up the same hour, and returned to
Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were
with them, 24:34 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared
to Simon.

24:35 And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was
known of them in breaking of bread.

24:36 And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of
them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.

24:37 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they
had seen a spirit.

24:38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts
arise in your hearts?  24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I
myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as
ye see me have.

24:40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his
feet.

24:41 And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said
unto them, Have ye here any meat?  24:42 And they gave him a piece of
a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.

24:43 And he took it, and did eat before them.

24:44 And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto
you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled,
which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in
the psalms, concerning me.

24:45 Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand
the scriptures, 24:46 And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus
it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:
24:47 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in
his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

24:48 And ye are witnesses of these things.

24:49 And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry
ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on
high.

24:50 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his
hands, and blessed them.

24:51 And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from
them, and carried up into heaven.

24:52 And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great
joy: 24:53 And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing
God. Amen.



The Gospel According to Saint John


1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the
Word was God.

1:2 The same was in the beginning with God.

1:3 All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing
made that was made.

1:4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

1:5 And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended
it not.

1:6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.

1:7 The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that
all men through him might believe.

1:8 He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.

1:9 That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into
the world.

1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world
knew him not.

1:11 He came unto his own, and his own received him not.

1:12 But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the
sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: 1:13 Which were
born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of
man, but of God.

1:14 And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld
his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of
grace and truth.

1:15 John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom
I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was
before me.

1:16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.

1:17 For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus
Christ.

1:18 No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is
in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.

1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and
Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?  1:20 And he
confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.

1:21 And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am
not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No.

1:22 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer
to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?  1:23 He said, I am
the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of
the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.

1:24 And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.

1:25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then,
if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet?  1:26
John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth
one among you, whom ye know not; 1:27 He it is, who coming after me is
preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.

1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was
baptizing.

1:29 The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold
the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.

1:30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is
preferred before me: for he was before me.

1:31 And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to
Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.

1:32 And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from
heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.

1:33 And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water,
the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending,
and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy
Ghost.

1:34 And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.

1:35 Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples;
1:36 And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of
God!  1:37 And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed
Jesus.

1:38 Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them,
What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being
interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?  1:39 He saith unto them,
Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him
that day: for it was about the tenth hour.

1:40 One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was
Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.

1:41 He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We
have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.

1:42 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said,
Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is
by interpretation, A stone.

1:43 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth
Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.

1:44 Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.

1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him,
of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of
Nazareth, the son of Joseph.

1:46 And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of
Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.

1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an
Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!  1:48 Nathanael saith unto him,
Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that
Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.

1:49 Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of
God; thou art the King of Israel.

1:50 Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw
thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things
than these.

1:51 And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter
ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and
descending upon the Son of man.

2:1 And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the
mother of Jesus was there: 2:2 And both Jesus was called, and his
disciples, to the marriage.

2:3 And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him,
They have no wine.

2:4 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine
hour is not yet come.

2:5 His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you,
do it.

2:6 And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner
of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.

2:7 Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they
filled them up to the brim.

2:8 And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor
of the feast. And they bare it.

2:9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made
wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the
water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 2:10 And
saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine;
and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast
kept the good wine until now.

2:11 This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and
manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.

2:12 After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his
brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days.

2:13 And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to
Jerusalem.

2:14 And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves,
and the changers of money sitting: 2:15 And when he had made a scourge
of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep,
and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the
tables; 2:16 And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things
hence; make not my Father's house an house of merchandise.

2:17 And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of
thine house hath eaten me up.

2:18 Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou
unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?  2:19 Jesus answered and
said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it
up.

2:20 Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in
building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?  2:21 But he spake
of the temple of his body.

2:22 When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples
remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the
scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.

2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day,
many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did.

2:24 But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all
men, 2:25 And needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew
what was in man.

3:1 There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the
Jews: 3:2 The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi,
we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these
miracles that thou doest, except God be with him.

3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

3:4 Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old?
can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?  3:5
Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born
of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.

3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit.

3:7 Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.

3:8 The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound
thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so
is every one that is born of the Spirit.

3:9 Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
3:10 Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel,
and knowest not these things?  3:11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye
receive not our witness.

3:12 If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall
ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?  3:13 And no man hath
ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son
of man which is in heaven.

3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so
must the Son of man be lifted up: 3:15 That whosoever believeth in him
should not perish, but have eternal life.

3:16 For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have
everlasting life.

3:17 For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but
that the world through him might be saved.

3:18 He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth
not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of
the only begotten Son of God.

3:19 And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were
evil.

3:20 For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to
the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.

3:21 But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may
be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.

3:22 After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of
Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.

3:23 And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there
was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.

3:24 For John was not yet cast into prison.

3:25 Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and
the Jews about purifying.

3:26 And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was
with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same
baptizeth, and all men come to him.

3:27 John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be
given him from heaven.

3:28 Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ,
but that I am sent before him.

3:29 He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the
bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because
of the bridegroom's voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.

3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease.

3:31 He that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth
is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is
above all.

3:32 And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man
receiveth his testimony.

3:33 He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God
is true.

3:34 For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God
giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.

3:35 The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his
hand.

3:36 He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that
believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth
on him.

4:1 When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that
Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, 4:2 (Though Jesus
himself baptized not, but his disciples,) 4:3 He left Judaea, and
departed again into Galilee.

4:4 And he must needs go through Samaria.

4:5 Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near
to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.

4:6 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with
his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour.

4:7 There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto
her, Give me to drink.

4:8 (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.)  4:9
Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a
Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews
have no dealings with the Samaritans.

4:10 Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of
God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest
have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.

4:11 The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with,
and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water?
4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well,
and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?  4:13
Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water
shall thirst again: 4:14 But whosoever drinketh of the water that I
shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him
shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.

4:15 The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst
not, neither come hither to draw.

4:16 Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.

4:17 The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto
her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband: 4:18 For thou hast had
five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that
saidst thou truly.

4:19 The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a
prophet.

4:20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in
Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.

4:21 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye
shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the
Father.

4:22 Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for
salvation is of the Jews.

4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall
worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such
to worship him.

4:24 God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in
spirit and in truth.

4:25 The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is
called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.

4:26 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.

4:27 And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked
with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest
thou with her?  4:28 The woman then left her waterpot, and went her
way into the city, and saith to the men, 4:29 Come, see a man, which
told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?  4:30 Then
they went out of the city, and came unto him.

4:31 In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.

4:32 But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.

4:33 Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought
him ought to eat?  4:34 Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the
will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.

4:35 Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest?
behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for
they are white already to harvest.

4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto
life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice
together.

4:37 And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.

4:38 I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men
laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.

4:39 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the
saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.

4:40 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that
he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.

4:41 And many more believed because of his own word; 4:42 And said
unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have
heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the
Saviour of the world.

4:43 Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.

4:44 For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his
own country.

4:45 Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him,
having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for
they also went unto the feast.

4:46 So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water
wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at
Capernaum.

4:47 When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he
went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his
son: for he was at the point of death.

4:48 Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye
will not believe.

4:49 The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.

4:50 Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man
believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way.

4:51 And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him,
saying, Thy son liveth.

4:52 Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And
they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.

4:53 So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which
Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his
whole house.

4:54 This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come
out of Judaea into Galilee.

5:1 After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to
Jerusalem.

5:2 Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is
called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches.

5:3 In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt,
withered, waiting for the moving of the water.

5:4 For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and
troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the
water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.

5:5 And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and
eight years.

5:6 When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time
in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole?  5:7 The
impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is
troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another
steppeth down before me.

5:8 Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.

5:9 And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and
walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.

5:10 The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the
sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.

5:11 He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me,
Take up thy bed, and walk.

5:12 Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take
up thy bed, and walk?  5:13 And he that was healed wist not who it
was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that
place.

5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him,
Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto
thee.

5:15 The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had
made him whole.

5:16 And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay
him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day.

5:17 But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.

5:18 Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not
only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father,
making himself equal with God.

5:19 Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say
unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the
Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son
likewise.

5:20 For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that
himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye
may marvel.

5:21 For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even
so the Son quickeneth whom he will.

5:22 For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment
unto the Son: 5:23 That all men should honour the Son, even as they
honour the Father.

He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent
him.

5:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and
believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not
come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.

5:25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that
hear shall live.

5:26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the
Son to have life in himself; 5:27 And hath given him authority to
execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.

5:28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that
are in the graves shall hear his voice, 5:29 And shall come forth;
they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that
have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.

5:30 I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my
judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of
the Father which hath sent me.

5:31 If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.

5:32 There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the
witness which he witnesseth of me is true.

5:33 Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.

5:34 But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say,
that ye might be saved.

5:35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a
season to rejoice in his light.

5:36 But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which
the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear
witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.

5:37 And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of
me.

Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.

5:38 And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent,
him ye believe not.

5:39 Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life:
and they are they which testify of me.

5:40 And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.

5:41 I receive not honour from men.

5:42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.

5:43 I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another
shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.

5:44 How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek
not the honour that cometh from God only?  5:45 Do not think that I
will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even
Moses, in whom ye trust.

5:46 For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me; for he
wrote of me.

5:47 But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my
words?  6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee,
which is the sea of Tiberias.

6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles
which he did on them that were diseased.

6:3 And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his
disciples.

6:4 And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.

6:5 When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come
unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these
may eat?  6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what
he would do.

6:7 Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not
sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little.

6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto
him, 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes: but what are they among so many?  6:10 And Jesus said,
Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the
men sat down, in number about five thousand.

6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he
distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set
down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.

6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the
fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.

6:13 Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets
with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and
above unto them that had eaten.

6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did,
said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.

6:15 When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him
by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain
himself alone.

6:16 And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea,
6:17 And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum.
And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.

6:18 And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.

6:19 So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs,
they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and
they were afraid.

6:20 But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid.

6:21 Then they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately
the ship was at the land whither they went.

6:22 The day following, when the people which stood on the other side
of the sea saw that there was none other boat there, save that one
whereinto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his
disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone;
6:23 (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place
where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:) 6:24
When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his
disciples, they also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for
Jesus.

6:25 And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they
said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?  6:26 Jesus answered
them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because
ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were
filled.

6:27 Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which
endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto
you: for him hath God the Father sealed.

6:28 Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the
works of God?  6:29 Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the
work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.

6:30 They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that
we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?  6:31 Our fathers
did eat manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from
heaven to eat.

6:32 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses
gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true
bread from heaven.

6:33 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and
giveth life unto the world.

6:34 Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.

6:35 And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh
to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never
thirst.

6:36 But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.

6:37 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that
cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.

6:38 For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the
will of him that sent me.

6:39 And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all
which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up
again at the last day.

6:40 And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which
seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I
will raise him up at the last day.

6:41 The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread
which came down from heaven.

6:42 And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father
and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from
heaven?  6:43 Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not
among yourselves.

6:44 No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw
him: and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:45 It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of
God.

Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father,
cometh unto me.

6:46 Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God,
he hath seen the Father.

6:47 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath
everlasting life.

6:48 I am that bread of life.

6:49 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead.

6:50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may
eat thereof, and not die.

6:51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat
of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give
is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.

6:52 The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this
man give us his flesh to eat?  6:53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and
drink his blood, ye have no life in you.

6:54 Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life;
and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:55 For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.

6:56 He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me,
and I in him.

6:57 As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so
he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.

6:58 This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your
fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread
shall live for ever.

6:59 These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.

6:60 Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said,
This is an hard saying; who can hear it?  6:61 When Jesus knew in
himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth
this offend you?  6:62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend
up where he was before?  6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth; the
flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are
spirit, and they are life.

6:64 But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from
the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray
him.

6:65 And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto
me, except it were given unto him of my Father.

6:66 From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no
more with him.

6:67 Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away?  6:68 Then
Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the
words of eternal life.

6:69 And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of
the living God.

6:70 Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you
is a devil?  6:71 He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he
it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.

7:1 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk
in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.

7:2 Now the Jew's feast of tabernacles was at hand.

7:3 His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into
Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.

7:4 For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself
seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to
the world.

7:5 For neither did his brethren believe in him.

7:6 Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time
is alway ready.

7:7 The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of
it, that the works thereof are evil.

7:8 Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my
time is not yet full come.

7:9 When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in Galilee.

7:10 But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the
feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.

7:11 Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he?
7:12 And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for
some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the
people.

7:13 Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.

7:14 Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple,
and taught.

7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters,
having never learned?  7:16 Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine
is not mine, but his that sent me.

7:17 If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine,
whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.

7:18 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that
seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no
unrighteousness is in him.

7:19 Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the
law?  Why go ye about to kill me?  7:20 The people answered and said,
Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?  7:21 Jesus answered
and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.

7:22 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of
Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a
man.

7:23 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of
Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a
man every whit whole on the sabbath day?  7:24 Judge not according to
the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.

7:25 Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they
seek to kill?  7:26 But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing
unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ?
7:27 Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no
man knoweth whence he is.

7:28 Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know
me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that
sent me is true, whom ye know not.

7:29 But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.

7:30 Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him,
because his hour was not yet come.

7:31 And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ
cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?
7:32 The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things
concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers
to take him.

7:33 Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and
then I go unto him that sent me.

7:34 Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither
ye cannot come.

7:35 Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we
shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles,
and teach the Gentiles?  7:36 What manner of saying is this that he
said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither
ye cannot come?  7:37 In the last day, that great day of the feast,
Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto
me, and drink.

7:38 He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his
belly shall flow rivers of living water.

7:39 (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him
should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that
Jesus was not yet glorified.)  7:40 Many of the people therefore, when
they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet.

7:41 Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come
out of Galilee?  7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh
of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David
was?  7:43 So there was a division among the people because of him.

7:44 And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on
him.

7:45 Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and
they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?  7:46 The officers
answered, Never man spake like this man.

7:47 Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?  7:48
Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?  7:49 But
this people who knoweth not the law are cursed.

7:50 Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being
one of them,) 7:51 Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and
know what he doeth?  7:52 They answered and said unto him, Art thou
also of Galilee?  Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no
prophet.

7:53 And every man went unto his own house.

8:1 Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.

8:2 And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all
the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.

8:3 And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in
adultery; and when they had set her in the midst, 8:4 They say unto
him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.

8:5 Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but
what sayest thou?  8:6 This they said, tempting him, that they might
have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote
on the ground, as though he heard them not.

8:7 So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said
unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a
stone at her.

8:8 And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.

8:9 And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience,
went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and
Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.

8:10 When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he
said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man
condemned thee?  8:11 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her,
Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.

8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the
world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have
the light of life.

8:13 The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of
thyself; thy record is not true.

8:14 Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of
myself, yet my record is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I
go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.

8:15 Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.

8:16 And yet if I judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but
I and the Father that sent me.

8:17 It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is
true.

8:18 I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me
beareth witness of me.

8:19 Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye
neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have
known my Father also.

8:20 These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the
temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet come.

8:21 Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek
me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye cannot come.

8:22 Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith,
Whither I go, ye cannot come.

8:23 And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye
are of this world; I am not of this world.

8:24 I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if
ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.

8:25 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them,
Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning.

8:26 I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that sent
me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard
of him.

8:27 They understood not that he spake to them of the Father.

8:28 Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man,
then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; but
as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.

8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me
alone; for I do always those things that please him.

8:30 As he spake these words, many believed on him.

8:31 Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye
continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; 8:32 And ye
shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.

8:33 They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in
bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?  8:34
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever
committeth sin is the servant of sin.

8:35 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son
abideth ever.

8:36 If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free
indeed.

8:37 I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me,
because my word hath no place in you.

8:38 I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that
which ye have seen with your father.

8:39 They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus
saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works
of Abraham.

8:40 But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth,
which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.

8:41 Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not
born of fornication; we have one Father, even God.

8:42 Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me:
for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but
he sent me.

8:43 Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear
my word.

8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye
will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the
truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he
speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.

8:45 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.

8:46 Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do
ye not believe me?  8:47 He that is of God heareth God's words: ye
therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God.

8:48 Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that
thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?  8:49 Jesus answered, I have
not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.

8:50 And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and
judgeth.

8:51 Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall
never see death.

8:52 Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil.

Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my
saying, he shall never taste of death.

8:53 Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the
prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?  8:54 Jesus answered, If
I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth
me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: 8:55 Yet ye have not known
him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a
liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying.

8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and
was glad.

8:57 Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old,
and hast thou seen Abraham?  8:58 Jesus said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.

8:59 Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself,
and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so
passed by.

9:1 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his
birth.

9:2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this
man, or his parents, that he was born blind?  9:3 Jesus answered,
Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of
God should be made manifest in him.

9:4 I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the
night cometh, when no man can work.

9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.

9:6 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of
the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,
9:7 And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by
interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came
seeing.

9:8 The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that
he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged?  9:9 Some
said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he.

9:10 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?  9:11
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and
anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and
wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight.

9:12 Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not.

9:13 They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind.

9:14 And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened
his eyes.

9:15 Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his
sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed,
and do see.

9:16 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God,
because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man
that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among
them.

9:17 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that
he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet.

9:18 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been
blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him
that had received his sight.

9:19 And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was
born blind? how then doth he now see?  9:20 His parents answered them
and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
9:21 But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened
his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for
himself.

9:22 These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for
the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was
Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.

9:23 Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.

9:24 Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him,
Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner.

9:25 He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not:
one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.

9:26 Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he
thine eyes?  9:27 He answered them, I have told you already, and ye
did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his
disciples?  9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his
disciple; but we are Moses' disciples.

9:29 We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know
not from whence he is.

9:30 The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous
thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine
eyes.

9:31 Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a
worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.

9:32 Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the
eyes of one that was born blind.

9:33 If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.

9:34 They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in
sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.

9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found
him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?  9:36 He
answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?  9:37
And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that
talketh with thee.

9:38 And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.

9:39 And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they
which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.

9:40 And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words,
and said unto him, Are we blind also?  9:41 Jesus said unto them, If
ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see;
therefore your sin remaineth.

10:1 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door
into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a
thief and a robber.

10:2 But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.

10:3 To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he
calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.

10:4 And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them,
and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.

10:5 And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for
they know not the voice of strangers.

10:6 This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what
things they were which he spake unto them.

10:7 Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
I am the door of the sheep.

10:8 All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the
sheep did not hear them.

10:9 I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and
shall go in and out, and find pasture.

10:10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have
it more abundantly.

10:11 I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for
the sheep.

10:12 But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the
sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and
fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.

10:13 The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not
for the sheep.

10:14 I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.

10:15 As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay
down my life for the sheep.

10:16 And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I
must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold,
and one shepherd.

10:17 Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life,
that I might take it again.

10:18 No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have
power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This
commandment have I received of my Father.

10:19 There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these
sayings.

10:20 And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hear ye
him?  10:21 Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a
devil. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?  10:22 And it was at
Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.

10:23 And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.

10:24 Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long
dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.

10:25 Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works
that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me.

10:26 But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said
unto you.

10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me:
10:28 And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish,
neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.

10:29 My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man
is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.

10:30 I and my Father are one.

10:31 Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.

10:32 Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you from my
Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?  10:33 The Jews
answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for
blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.

10:34 Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye
are gods?  10:35 If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God
came, and the scripture cannot be broken; 10:36 Say ye of him, whom
the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest;
because I said, I am the Son of God?  10:37 If I do not the works of
my Father, believe me not.

10:38 But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that
ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.

10:39 Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped out of
their hand, 10:40 And went away again beyond Jordan into the place
where John at first baptized; and there he abode.

10:41 And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no miracle: but
all things that John spake of this man were true.

10:42 And many believed on him there.

11:1 Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town
of Mary and her sister Martha.

11:2 (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and
wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)  11:3
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom
thou lovest is sick.

11:4 When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death,
but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified
thereby.

11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.

11:6 When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days
still in the same place where he was.

11:7 Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judaea
again.

11:8 His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to
stone thee; and goest thou thither again?  11:9 Jesus answered, Are
there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he
stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.

11:10 But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is
no light in him.

11:11 These things said he: and after that he saith unto them, Our
friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep.

11:12 Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.

11:13 Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had
spoken of taking of rest in sleep.

11:14 Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.

11:15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent
ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.

11:16 Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his
fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.

11:17 Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave
four days already.

11:18 Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off:
11:19 And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to comfort them
concerning their brother.

11:20 Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went
and met him: but Mary sat still in the house.

11:21 Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my
brother had not died.

11:22 But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God
will give it thee.

11:23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.

11:24 Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection at the last day.

11:25 Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he
that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: 11:26
And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest
thou this?  11:27 She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou
art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.

11:28 And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her
sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee.

11:29 As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him.

11:30 Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place
where Martha met him.

11:31 The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted
her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out,
followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there.

11:32 Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell
down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my
brother had not died.

11:33 When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping
which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled.

11:34 And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come
and see.

11:35 Jesus wept.

11:36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!  11:37 And some of
them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind,
have caused that even this man should not have died?  11:38 Jesus
therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a
cave, and a stone lay upon it.

11:39 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him
that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he
hath been dead four days.

11:40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou
wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?  11:41 Then
they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And
Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou
hast heard me.

11:42 And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the
people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast
sent me.

11:43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice,
Lazarus, come forth.

11:44 And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with
graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith
unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

11:45 Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the
things which Jesus did, believed on him.

11:46 But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them
what things Jesus had done.

11:47 Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and
said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles.

11:48 If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the
Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation.

11:49 And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same
year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, 11:50 Nor consider that
it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and
that the whole nation perish not.

11:51 And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that
year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation; 11:52 And
not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in
one the children of God that were scattered abroad.

11:53 Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put
him to death.

11:54 Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went
thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called
Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples.

11:55 And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went out of
the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves.

11:56 Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they
stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the
feast?  11:57 Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a
commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it,
that they might take him.

12:1 Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where
Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.

12:2 There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was
one of them that sat at the table with him.

12:3 Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the
house was filled with the odour of the ointment.

12:4 Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son,
which should betray him, 12:5 Why was not this ointment sold for three
hundred pence, and given to the poor?  12:6 This he said, not that he
cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and
bare what was put therein.

12:7 Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying
hath she kept this.

12:8 For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always.

12:9 Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and
they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus
also, whom he had raised from the dead.

12:10 But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also
to death; 12:11 Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went
away, and believed on Jesus.

12:12 On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when
they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 12:13 Took branches of
palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is
the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.

12:14 And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is
written, 12:15 Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh,
sitting on an ass's colt.

12:16 These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when
Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were
written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.

12:17 The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus
out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record.

12:18 For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that
he had done this miracle.

12:19 The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how
ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.

12:20 And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship
at the feast: 12:21 The same came therefore to Philip, which was of
Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see
Jesus.

12:22 Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip
tell Jesus.

12:23 And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son
of man should be glorified.

12:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into
the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth
much fruit.

12:25 He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his
life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.

12:26 If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there
shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father
honour.

12:27 Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me
from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.

12:28 Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven,
saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.

12:29 The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it
thundered: others said, An angel spake to him.

12:30 Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but
for your sakes.

12:31 Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this
world be cast out.

12:32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto
me.

12:33 This he said, signifying what death he should die.

12:34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that
Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be
lifted up? who is this Son of man?  12:35 Then Jesus said unto them,
Yet a little while is the light with you.

Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that
walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.

12:36 While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the
children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did
hide himself from them.

12:37 But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they
believed not on him: 12:38 That the saying of Esaias the prophet might
be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and
to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?  12:39 Therefore they
could not believe, because that Esaias said again, 12:40 He hath
blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that they should not see
with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted,
and I should heal them.

12:41 These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of
him.

12:42 Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him;
but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they
should be put out of the synagogue: 12:43 For they loved the praise of
men more than the praise of God.

12:44 Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on
me, but on him that sent me.

12:45 And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.

12:46 I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me
should not abide in darkness.

12:47 And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not:
for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.

12:48 He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that
judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in
the last day.

12:49 For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me,
he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.

12:50 And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever
I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.

13:1 Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his
hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father,
having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the
end.

13:2 And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart
of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him; 13:3 Jesus knowing that
the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come
from God, and went to God; 13:4 He riseth from supper, and laid aside
his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself.

13:5 After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the
disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was
girded.

13:6 Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith unto him, Lord,
dost thou wash my feet?  13:7 Jesus answered and said unto him, What I
do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter.

13:8 Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus
answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me.

13:9 Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my
hands and my head.

13:10 Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash
his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all.

13:11 For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not
all clean.

13:12 So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments,
and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to
you?  13:13 Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.

13:14 If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also
ought to wash one another's feet.

13:15 For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have
done to you.

13:16 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than
his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him.

13:17 If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.

13:18 I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the
scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath lifted
up his heel against me.

13:19 Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye
may believe that I am he.

13:20 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I
send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent
me.

13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and
testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you
shall betray me.

13:22 Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he
spake.

13:23 Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom
Jesus loved.

13:24 Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it
should be of whom he spake.

13:25 He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it?
13:26 Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I
have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas
Iscariot, the son of Simon.

13:27 And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto
him, That thou doest, do quickly.

13:28 Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto
him.

13:29 For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus
had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the
feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.

13:30 He then having received the sop went immediately out: and it was
night.

13:31 Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of
man glorified, and God is glorified in him.

13:32 If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in
himself, and shall straightway glorify him.

13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek
me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now
I say to you.

13:34 A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as
I have loved you, that ye also love one another.

13:35 By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have
love one to another.

13:36 Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus
answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou
shalt follow me afterwards.

13:37 Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will
lay down my life for thy sake.

13:38 Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake?
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou
hast denied me thrice.

14:1 Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also
in me.

14:2 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I
would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.

14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and
receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

14:4 And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.

14:5 Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and
how can we know the way?  14:6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the
truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

14:7 If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from
henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.

14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth
us.

14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet
hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the
Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?  14:10 Believest
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me?  the words
that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that
dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.

14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or
else believe me for the very works' sake.

14:12 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the
works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall
he do; because I go unto my Father.

14:13 And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the
Father may be glorified in the Son.

14:14 If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.

14:15 If ye love me, keep my commandments.

14:16 And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another
Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; 14:17 Even the Spirit
of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not,
neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and
shall be in you.

14:18 I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.

14:19 Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see
me: because I live, ye shall live also.

14:20 At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me,
and I in you.

14:21 He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that
loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I
will love him, and will manifest myself to him.

14:22 Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou
wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?  14:23 Jesus
answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words:
and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our
abode with him.

14:24 He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which
ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me.

14:25 These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.

14:26 But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will
send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things
to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

14:27 Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the
world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid.

14:28 Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again
unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto
the Father: for my Father is greater than I.

14:29 And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is
come to pass, ye might believe.

14:30 Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this
world cometh, and hath nothing in me.

14:31 But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the
Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.

15:1 I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.

15:2 Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and
every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring
forth more fruit.

15:3 Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.

15:4 Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide
in me.

15:5 I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I
in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do
nothing.

15:6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is
withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they
are burned.

15:7 If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what
ye will, and it shall be done unto you.

15:8 Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall
ye be my disciples.

15:9 As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in
my love.

15:10 If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I
have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love.

15:11 These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in
you, and that your joy might be full.

15:12 This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have
loved you.

15:13 Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life
for his friends.

15:14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.

15:15 Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not
what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things
that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.

15:16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you,
that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should
remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may
give it you.

15:17 These things I command you, that ye love one another.

15:18 If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated
you.

15:19 If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but
because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the
world, therefore the world hateth you.

15:20 Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not
greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also
persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.

15:21 But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake,
because they know not him that sent me.

15:22 If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin:
but now they have no cloak for their sin.

15:23 He that hateth me hateth my Father also.

15:24 If I had not done among them the works which none other man did,
they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me
and my Father.

15:25 But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that
is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.

15:26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from
the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the
Father, he shall testify of me: 15:27 And ye also shall bear witness,
because ye have been with me from the beginning.

16:1 These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be
offended.

16:2 They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh,
that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service.

16:3 And these things will they do unto you, because they have not
known the Father, nor me.

16:4 But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come,
ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not
unto you at the beginning, because I was with you.

16:5 But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh
me, Whither goest thou?  16:6 But because I have said these things
unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart.

16:7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I
go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you;
but if I depart, I will send him unto you.

16:8 And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of
righteousness, and of judgment: 16:9 Of sin, because they believe not
on me; 16:10 Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see
me no more; 16:11 Of judgment, because the prince of this world is
judged.

16:12 I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now.

16:13 Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you
into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he
shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come.

16:14 He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall
shew it unto you.

16:15 All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that
he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.

16:16 A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little
while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father.

16:17 Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this
that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and
again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the
Father?  16:18 They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A
little while? we cannot tell what he saith.

16:19 Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto
them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while,
and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see
me?  16:20 Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and
lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but
your sorrow shall be turned into joy.

16:21 A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is
come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no
more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world.

16:22 And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and
your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.

16:23 And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say
unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give
it you.

16:24 Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall
receive, that your joy may be full.

16:25 These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time
cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall
shew you plainly of the Father.

16:26 At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you,
that I will pray the Father for you: 16:27 For the Father himself
loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came
out from God.

16:28 I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again,
I leave the world, and go to the Father.

16:29 His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and
speakest no proverb.

16:30 Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not
that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest
forth from God.

16:31 Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?  16:32 Behold, the hour
cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his
own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the
Father is with me.

16:33 These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have
peace.

In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have
overcome the world.

17:1 These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and
said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may
glorify thee: 17:2 As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that
he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.

17:3 And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true
God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.

17:4 I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work
which thou gavest me to do.

17:5 And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the
glory which I had with thee before the world was.

17:6 I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out
of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have
kept thy word.

17:7 Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me
are of thee.

17:8 For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and
they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from
thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me.

17:9 I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which
thou hast given me; for they are thine.

17:10 And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified
in them.

17:11 And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world,
and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those
whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.

17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name:
those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but
the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

17:13 And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world,
that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves.

17:14 I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them,
because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

17:15 I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but
that thou shouldest keep them from the evil.

17:16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

17:17 Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.

17:18 As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent
them into the world.

17:19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be
sanctified through the truth.

17:20 Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall
believe on me through their word; 17:21 That they all may be one; as
thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in
us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.

17:22 And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they
may be one, even as we are one: 17:23 I in them, and thou in me, that
they may be made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou
hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.

17:24 Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with
me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given
me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.

17:25 O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have
known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.

17:26 And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it:
that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in
them.

18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his
disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he
entered, and his disciples.

18:2 And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus
ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples.

18:3 Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the
chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches
and weapons.

18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him,
went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?  18:5 They answered him,
Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he.

And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them.

18:6 As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went
backward, and fell to the ground.

18:7 Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of
Nazareth.

18:8 Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore ye
seek me, let these go their way: 18:9 That the saying might be
fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost
none.

18:10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high
priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was
Malchus.

18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath:
the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?  18:12
Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and
bound him, 18:13 And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in
law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.

18:14 Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was
expedient that one man should die for the people.

18:15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple:
that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus
into the palace of the high priest.

18:16 But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other
disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her
that kept the door, and brought in Peter.

18:17 Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not
thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not.

18:18 And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire
of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood
with them, and warmed himself.

18:19 The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his
doctrine.

18:20 Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever taught
in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort;
and in secret have I said nothing.

18:21 Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said
unto them: behold, they know what I said.

18:22 And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by
struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the
high priest so?  18:23 Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear
witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?  18:24 Now
Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.

18:25 And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore
unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and
said, I am not.

18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose
ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?
18:27 Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.

18:28 Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and
it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall,
lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.

18:29 Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring
ye against this man?  18:30 They answered and said unto him, If he
were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.

18:31 Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according
to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us
to put any man to death: 18:32 That the saying of Jesus might be
fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die.

18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called
Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?  18:34 Jesus
answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it
thee of me?  18:35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and
the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?
18:36 Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom
were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be
delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.

18:37 Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus
answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and
for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto
the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.

18:38 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this,
he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no
fault at all.

18:39 But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the
passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the
Jews?  18:40 Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but
Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.

19:1 Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.

19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his
head, and they put on him a purple robe, 19:3 And said, Hail, King of
the Jews! and they smote him with their hands.

19:4 Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I
bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.

19:5 Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the
purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!  19:6 When
the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out,
saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him,
and crucify him: for I find no fault in him.

19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to
die, because he made himself the Son of God.

19:8 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid;
19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus,
Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.

19:10 Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest
thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release
thee?  19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all
against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that
delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.

19:12 And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews
cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's
friend: whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar.

19:13 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth,
and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the
Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha.

19:14 And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth
hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!  19:15 But they
cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him.

Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests
answered, We have no king but Caesar.

19:16 Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified. And
they took Jesus, and led him away.

19:17 And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the
place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha: 19:18 Where
they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and
Jesus in the midst.

19:19 And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the
writing was JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS.

19:20 This title then read many of the Jews: for the place where Jesus
was crucified was nigh to the city: and it was written in Hebrew, and
Greek, and Latin.

19:21 Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not,
The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.

19:22 Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.

19:23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his
garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also his
coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.

19:24 They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but
cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be
fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my
vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did.

19:25 Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his
mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.

19:26 When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing
by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
19:27 Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that
hour that disciple took her unto his own home.

19:28 After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished,
that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.

19:29 Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a
spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth.

19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is
finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.

19:31 The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the
bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that
sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be
broken, and that they might be taken away.

19:32 Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of
the other which was crucified with him.

19:33 But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already,
they brake not his legs: 19:34 But one of the soldiers with a spear
pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water.

19:35 And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he
knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.

19:36 For these things were done, that the scripture should be
fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.

19:37 And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom
they pierced.

19:38 And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus,
but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take
away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore,
and took the body of Jesus.

19:39 And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus
by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred
pound weight.

19:40 Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen clothes
with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury.

19:41 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden; and
in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid.

19:42 There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews' preparation
day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.

20:1 The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it
was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from
the sepulchre.

20:2 Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other
disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away
the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid
him.

20:3 Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to
the sepulchre.

20:4 So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun
Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.

20:5 And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes
lying; yet went he not in.

20:6 Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the
sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 20:7 And the napkin, that
was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped
together in a place by itself.

20:8 Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the
sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.

20:9 For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again
from the dead.

20:10 Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.

20:11 But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she
wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, 20:12 And seeth
two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the
feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.

20:13 And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto
them, Because they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they
have laid him.

20:14 And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw
Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.

20:15 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest
thou?  She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if
thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I
will take him away.

20:16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto
him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master.

20:17 Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to
my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my
Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.

20:18 Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the
LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her.

20:19 Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week,
when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear
of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them,
Peace be unto you.

20:20 And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and his
side.

Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD.

20:21 Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father
hath sent me, even so send I you.

20:22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto
them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: 20:23 Whose soever sins ye remit,
they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are
retained.

20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them
when Jesus came.

20:25 The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the
LORD.

But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of
the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust
my hand into his side, I will not believe.

20:26 And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas
with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the
midst, and said, Peace be unto you.

20:27 Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my
hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be
not faithless, but believing.

20:28 And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God.

20:29 Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou
hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have
believed.

20:30 And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his
disciples, which are not written in this book: 20:31 But these are
written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of
God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.

21:1 After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at
the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself.

21:2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and
Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other
of his disciples.

21:3 Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him,
We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship
immediately; and that night they caught nothing.

21:4 But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but
the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.

21:5 Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They
answered him, No.

21:6 And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the
ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not
able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.

21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is
the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his
fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into
the sea.

21:8 And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not
far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net
with fishes.

21:9 As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals
there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.

21:10 Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now
caught.

21:11 Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great
fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so
many, yet was not the net broken.

21:12 Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples
durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord.

21:13 Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish
likewise.

21:14 This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his
disciples, after that he was risen from the dead.

21:15 So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son
of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea,
Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs.

21:16 He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas,
lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love
thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

21:17 He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest
thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time,
Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things;
thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

21:18 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou
girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou
shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall
gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not.

21:19 This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God.
And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me.

21:20 Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved
following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord,
which is he that betrayeth thee?  21:21 Peter seeing him saith to
Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?  21:22 Jesus saith unto him,
If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou
me.

21:23 Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that
disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not
die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?
21:24 This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote
these things: and we know that his testimony is true.

21:25 And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which,
if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world
itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.




The Acts of the Apostles


1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus
began both to do and teach, 1:2 Until the day in which he was taken
up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto
the apostles whom he had chosen: 1:3 To whom also he shewed himself
alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them
forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of
God: 1:4 And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that
they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the
Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.

1:5 For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with
the Holy Ghost not many days hence.

1:6 When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying,
Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?  1:7
And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the
seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power.

1:8 But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon
you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all
Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was
taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight.

1:10 And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up,
behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; 1:11 Which also said,
Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same
Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like
manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.

1:12 Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet,
which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey.

1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room,
where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and
Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon
Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James.

1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication,
with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.

1:15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples,
and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred and
twenty,) 1:16 Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been
fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before
concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus.

1:17 For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this
ministry.

1:18 Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and
falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels
gushed out.

1:19 And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as
that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say,
The field of blood.

1:20 For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be
desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another
take.

1:21 Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time
that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 1:22 Beginning from the
baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must
one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.

1:23 And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed
Justus, and Matthias.

1:24 And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts
of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, 1:25 That he
may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by
transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.

1:26 And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias;
and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

2:1 And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with
one accord in one place.

2:2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty
wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.

2:3 And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and
it sat upon each of them.

2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak
with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.

2:5 And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of
every nation under heaven.

2:6 Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and
were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own
language.

2:7 And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another,
Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans?  2:8 And how hear we
every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?  2:9 Parthians, and
Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea,
and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, 2:10 Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in
Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome,
Jews and proselytes, 2:11 Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak
in our tongues the wonderful works of God.

2:12 And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to
another, What meaneth this?  2:13 Others mocking said, These men are
full of new wine.

2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and
said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem,
be this known unto you, and hearken to my words: 2:15 For these are
not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the
day.

2:16 But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel; 2:17 And
it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of
my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall
dream dreams: 2:18 And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will
pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy: 2:19 And
I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath;
blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke: 2:20 The sun shall be turned
into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable
day of the Lord come: 2:21 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever
shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.

2:22 Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man
approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God
did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know: 2:23 Him,
being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God,
ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: 2:24 Whom
God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was
not possible that he should be holden of it.

2:25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always
before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be
moved: 2:26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad;
moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope: 2:27 Because thou wilt not
leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see
corruption.

2:28 Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me
full of joy with thy countenance.

2:29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch
David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us
unto this day.

2:30 Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an
oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh,
he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne; 2:31 He seeing this
before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left
in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.

2:32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.

2:33 Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having
received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed
forth this, which ye now see and hear.

2:34 For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself,
The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 2:35 Until I
make thy foes thy footstool.

2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God
hath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and
Christ.

2:37 Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and
said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren,
what shall we do?  2:38 Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be
baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the
remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.

2:39 For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all
that are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.

2:40 And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save
yourselves from this untoward generation.

2:41 Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the
same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.

2:42 And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and
fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.

2:43 And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were
done by the apostles.

2:44 And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
2:45 And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men,
as every man had need.

2:46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and
breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness
and singleness of heart, 2:47 Praising God, and having favour with all
the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be
saved.

3:1 Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of
prayer, being the ninth hour.

3:2 And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom
they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful,
to ask alms of them that entered into the temple; 3:3 Who seeing Peter
and John about to go into the temple asked an alms.

3:4 And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on
us.

3:5 And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of
them.

3:6 Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have
give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.

3:7 And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and
immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.

3:8 And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into
the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.

3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God: 3:10 And they
knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the
temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which
had happened unto him.

3:11 And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the
people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's,
greatly wondering.

3:12 And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of
Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as
though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?
3:13 The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our
fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and
denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let
him go.

3:14 But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer
to be granted unto you; 3:15 And killed the Prince of life, whom God
hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.

3:16 And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong,
whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him
this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.

3:17 And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did
also your rulers.

3:18 But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of all
his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.

3:19 Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be
blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence
of the Lord.

3:20 And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto
you: 3:21 Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution
of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy
prophets since the world began.

3:22 For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord
your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall
ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.

3:23 And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear
that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.

3:24 Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow
after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.

3:25 Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which
God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3:26 Unto you first God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to
bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.

4:1 And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of
the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them, 4:2 Being grieved that
they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection
from the dead.

4:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next
day: for it was now eventide.

4:4 Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number
of the men was about five thousand.

4:5 And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders,
and scribes, 4:6 And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John,
and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest,
were gathered together at Jerusalem.

4:7 And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what
power, or by what name, have ye done this?  4:8 Then Peter, filled
with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and
elders of Israel, 4:9 If we this day be examined of the good deed done
to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole; 4:10 Be it known
unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the
dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.

4:11 This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which
is become the head of the corner.

4:12 Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other
name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.

4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived
that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they
took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.

4:14 And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they
could say nothing against it.

4:15 But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council,
they conferred among themselves, 4:16 Saying, What shall we do to
these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is
manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it.

4:17 But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly
threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.

4:18 And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor
teach in the name of Jesus.

4:19 But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be
right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God,
judge ye.

4:20 For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.

4:21 So when they had further threatened them, they let them go,
finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for
all men glorified God for that which was done.

4:22 For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of
healing was shewed.

4:23 And being let go, they went to their own company, and reported
all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them.

4:24 And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with
one accord, and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and
earth, and the sea, and all that in them is: 4:25 Who by the mouth of
thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the people
imagine vain things?  4:26 The kings of the earth stood up, and the
rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against his
Christ.

4:27 For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast
anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the
people of Israel, were gathered together, 4:28 For to do whatsoever
thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.

4:29 And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy
servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word, 4:30 By
stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be
done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.

4:31 And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were
assembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and
they spake the word of God with boldness.

4:32 And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of
one soul: neither said any of them that ought of the things which he
possessed was his own; but they had all things common.

4:33 And with great power gave the apostles witness of the
resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.

4:34 Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were
possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the
things that were sold, 4:35 And laid them down at the apostles' feet:
and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.

4:36 And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is,
being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, and of the
country of Cyprus, 4:37 Having land, sold it, and brought the money,
and laid it at the apostles' feet.

5:1 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a
possession, 5:2 And kept back part of the price, his wife also being
privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles'
feet.

5:3 But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie
to the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
5:4 Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold,
was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing in
thine heart?  thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.

5:5 And Ananias hearing these words fell down, and gave up the ghost:
and great fear came on all them that heard these things.

5:6 And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and
buried him.

5:7 And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife,
not knowing what was done, came in.

5:8 And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for
so much? And she said, Yea, for so much.

5:9 Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together
to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? behold, the feet of them which have
buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.

5:10 Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the
ghost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carrying
her forth, buried her by her husband.

5:11 And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as
heard these things.

5:12 And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders
wrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord in
Solomon's porch.

5:13 And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the people
magnified them.

5:14 And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of
men and women.)  5:15 Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into
the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the
shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.

5:16 There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto
Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean
spirits: and they were healed every one.

5:17 Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him,
(which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with
indignation, 5:18 And laid their hands on the apostles, and put them
in the common prison.

5:19 But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and
brought them forth, and said, 5:20 Go, stand and speak in the temple
to the people all the words of this life.

5:21 And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in
the morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were
with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the
children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.

5:22 But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison,
they returned and told, 5:23 Saying, The prison truly found we shut
with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors:
but when we had opened, we found no man within.

5:24 Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the
chief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto this
would grow.

5:25 Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put
in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.

5:26 Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without
violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been
stoned.

5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council:
and the high priest asked them, 5:28 Saying, Did not we straitly
command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye
have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this
man's blood upon us.

5:29 Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to
obey God rather than men.

5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged
on a tree.

5:31 Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a
Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.

5:32 And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy
Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him.

5:33 When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took
counsel to slay them.

5:34 Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named
Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people,
and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 5:35 And said
unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to
do as touching these men.

5:36 For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be
somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined
themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were
scattered, and brought to nought.

5:37 After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the
taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and
all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.

5:38 And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them
alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to
nought: 5:39 But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply
ye be found even to fight against God.

5:40 And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles,
and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name
of Jesus, and let them go.

5:41 And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing
that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.

5:42 And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to
teach and preach Jesus Christ.

6:1 And in those days, when the number of the disciples was
multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the
Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily
ministration.

6:2 Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them,
and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and
serve tables.

6:3 Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest
report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over
this business.

6:4 But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the
ministry of the word.

6:5 And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose
Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and
Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a
proselyte of Antioch: 6:6 Whom they set before the apostles: and when
they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.

6:7 And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples
multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests
were obedient to the faith.

6:8 And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and
miracles among the people.

6:9 Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the
synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of
them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.

6:10 And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by
which he spake.

6:11 Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak
blasphemous words against Moses, and against God.

6:12 And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes,
and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council,
6:13 And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to
speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law: 6:14 For
we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this
place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.

6:15 And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw
his face as it had been the face of an angel.

7:1 Then said the high priest, Are these things so?  7:2 And he said,
Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto
our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in
Charran, 7:3 And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from
thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee.

7:4 Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in
Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him
into this land, wherein ye now dwell.

7:5 And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set
his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a
possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.

7:6 And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a
strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and
entreat them evil four hundred years.

7:7 And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said
God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.

7:8 And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begat
Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; and
Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.

7:9 And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but
God was with him, 7:10 And delivered him out of all his afflictions,
and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt;
and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.

7:11 Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan,
and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.

7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out
our fathers first.

7:13 And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; and
Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.

7:14 Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his
kindred, threescore and fifteen souls.

7:15 So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
7:16 And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that
Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father of
Sychem.

7:17 But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn
to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt, 7:18 Till another
king arose, which knew not Joseph.

7:19 The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our
fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they
might not live.

7:20 In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and
nourished up in his father's house three months: 7:21 And when he was
cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her
own son.

7:22 And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was
mighty in words and in deeds.

7:23 And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to
visit his brethren the children of Israel.

7:24 And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged
him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian: 7:25 For he supposed
his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would
deliver them: but they understood not.

7:26 And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and
would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; why
do ye wrong one to another?  7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrong
thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
7:28 Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?  7:29
Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of
Madian, where he begat two sons.

7:30 And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the
wilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a
bush.

7:31 When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew near
to behold it, the voice of the LORD came unto him, 7:32 Saying, I am
the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and
the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.

7:33 Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for
the place where thou standest is holy ground.

7:34 I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is in
Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver
them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.

7:35 This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a
judge? the same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand
of the angel which appeared to him in the bush.

7:36 He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signs
in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty
years.

7:37 This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, A
prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren,
like unto me; him shall ye hear.

7:38 This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the
angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: who
received the lively oracles to give unto us: 7:39 To whom our fathers
would not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned
back again into Egypt, 7:40 Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go
before us: for as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

7:41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto
the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.

7:42 Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven;
as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel,
have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space of
forty years in the wilderness?  7:43 Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of
Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to
worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.

7:44 Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as
he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it
according to the fashion that he had seen.

7:45 Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into
the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face of
our fathers, unto the days of David; 7:46 Who found favour before God,
and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.

7:47 But Solomon built him an house.

7:48 Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as
saith the prophet, 7:49 Heaven is my throne, and earth is my
footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is the
place of my rest?  7:50 Hath not my hand made all these things?  7:51
Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always
resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.

7:52 Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they
have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; of
whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers: 7:53 Who have
received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.

7:54 When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and
they gnashed on him with their teeth.

7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into
heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand
of God, 7:56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son
of man standing on the right hand of God.

7:57 Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears,
and ran upon him with one accord, 7:58 And cast him out of the city,
and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young
man's feet, whose name was Saul.

7:59 And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord
Jesus, receive my spirit.

7:60 And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not
this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

8:1 And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was
a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and
they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and
Samaria, except the apostles.

8:2 And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great
lamentation over him.

8:3 As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into every
house, and haling men and women committed them to prison.

8:4 Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where
preaching the word.

8:5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ
unto them.

8:6 And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which
Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.

8:7 For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that
were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were
lame, were healed.

8:8 And there was great joy in that city.

8:9 But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in the
same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving
out that himself was some great one: 8:10 To whom they all gave heed,
from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of
God.

8:11 And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had
bewitched them with sorceries.

8:12 But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the
kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both
men and women.

8:13 Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he
continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs
which were done.

8:14 Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria
had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: 8:15
Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might
receive the Holy Ghost: 8:16 (For as yet he was fallen upon none of
them: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.)  8:17
Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.

8:18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands
the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, 8:19 Saying, Give me
also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the
Holy Ghost.

8:20 But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou
hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.

8:21 Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is
not right in the sight of God.

8:22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps
the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee.

8:23 For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in
the bond of iniquity.

8:24 Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the LORD for me, that
none of these things which ye have spoken come upon me.

8:25 And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the
Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages
of the Samaritans.

8:26 And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and
go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto
Gaza, which is desert.

8:27 And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch
of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the
charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,
8:28 Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias the
prophet.

8:29 Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to
this chariot.

8:30 And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet
Esaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?  8:31 And he
said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired
Philip that he would come up and sit with him.

8:32 The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as
a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so
opened he not his mouth: 8:33 In his humiliation his judgment was
taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is
taken from the earth.

8:34 And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom
speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?  8:35
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and
preached unto him Jesus.

8:36 And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water:
and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be
baptized?  8:37 And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine
heart, thou mayest.

And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of
God.

8:38 And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down
both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.

8:39 And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the
Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went
on his way rejoicing.

8:40 But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached
in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.

9:1 And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the
disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, 9:2 And desired of
him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of
this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound
unto Jerusalem.

9:3 And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there
shined round about him a light from heaven: 9:4 And he fell to the
earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou me?  9:5 And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am
Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the
pricks.

9:6 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me
to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it
shall be told thee what thou must do.

9:7 And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a
voice, but seeing no man.

9:8 And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he
saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into
Damascus.

9:9 And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor
drink.

9:10 And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and
to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am
here, Lord.

9:11 And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which
is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called
Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth, 9:12 And hath seen in a
vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him,
that he might receive his sight.

9:13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man,
how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem: 9:14 And here
he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy
name.

9:15 But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel
unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the
children of Israel: 9:16 For I will shew him how great things he must
suffer for my name's sake.

9:17 And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting
his hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that
appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou
mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.

9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales:
and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.

9:19 And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul
certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.

9:20 And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is
the Son of God.

9:21 But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he that
destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither
for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chief
priests?  9:22 But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded
the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.

9:23 And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to
kill him: 9:24 But their laying await was known of Saul. And they
watched the gates day and night to kill him.

9:25 Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by the
wall in a basket.

9:26 And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself
to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not
that he was a disciple.

9:27 But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and
declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he
had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the
name of Jesus.

9:28 And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.

9:29 And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputed
against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.

9:30 Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea,
and sent him forth to Tarsus.

9:31 Then had the churches rest throughout all Judaea and Galilee and
Samaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and in
the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.

9:32 And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he
came down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.

9:33 And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, which had kept his
bed eight years, and was sick of the palsy.

9:34 And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole:
arise, and make thy bed. And he arose immediately.

9:35 And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to the
Lord.

9:36 Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by
interpretation is called Dorcas: this woman was full of good works and
almsdeeds which she did.

9:37 And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died:
whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.

9:38 And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had
heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring him
that he would not delay to come to them.

9:39 Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they
brought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by him
weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, while
she was with them.

9:40 But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; and
turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes:
and when she saw Peter, she sat up.

9:41 And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he had
called the saints and widows, presented her alive.

9:42 And it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in the
Lord.

9:43 And it came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with one
Simon a tanner.

10:1 There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion
of the band called the Italian band, 10:2 A devout man, and one that
feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and
prayed to God alway.

10:3 He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an
angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.

10:4 And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is it,
Lord?  And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up
for a memorial before God.

10:5 And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname
is Peter: 10:6 He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by
the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do.

10:7 And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he
called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them
that waited on him continually; 10:8 And when he had declared all
these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.

10:9 On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh unto
the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth
hour: 10:10 And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while
they made ready, he fell into a trance, 10:11 And saw heaven opened,
and a certain vessel descending upon him, as it had been a great sheet
knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth: 10:12 Wherein
were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,
and creeping things, and fowls of the air.

10:13 And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.

10:14 But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing
that is common or unclean.

10:15 And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What God
hath cleansed, that call not thou common.

10:16 This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up again into
heaven.

10:17 Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision which he had
seen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had
made enquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate, 10:18 And
called, and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged
there.

10:19 While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him,
Behold, three men seek thee.

10:20 Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting
nothing: for I have sent them.

10:21 Then Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him from
Cornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is the cause
wherefore ye are come?  10:22 And they said, Cornelius the centurion,
a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the
nation of the Jews, was warned from God by an holy angel to send for
thee into his house, and to hear words of thee.

10:23 Then called he them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow Peter
went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.

10:24 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius
waited for them, and he had called together his kinsmen and near
friends.

10:25 And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at
his feet, and worshipped him.

10:26 But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.

10:27 And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that were
come together.

10:28 And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thing
for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of another
nation; but God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common
or unclean.

10:29 Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was
sent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me?  10:30
And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and
at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood
before me in bright clothing, 10:31 And said, Cornelius, thy prayer is
heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.

10:32 Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is
Peter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea
side: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.

10:33 Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well done
that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God,
to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.

10:34 Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive
that God is no respecter of persons: 10:35 But in every nation he that
feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.

10:36 The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching
peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:) 10:37 That word, I say, ye
know, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began from
Galilee, after the baptism which John preached; 10:38 How God anointed
Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about
doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God
was with him.

10:39 And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land
of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:
10:40 Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly; 10:41
Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God, even to
us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.

10:42 And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify
that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and
dead.

10:43 To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name
whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.

10:44 While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all
them which heard the word.

10:45 And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, as
many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured
out the gift of the Holy Ghost.

10:46 For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then
answered Peter, 10:47 Can any man forbid water, that these should not
be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?  10:48
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then
prayed they him to tarry certain days.

11:1 And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that the
Gentiles had also received the word of God.

11:2 And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the
circumcision contended with him, 11:3 Saying, Thou wentest in to men
uncircumcised, and didst eat with them.

11:4 But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning, and expounded
it by order unto them, saying, 11:5 I was in the city of Joppa
praying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain vessel descend, as
it had been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and
it came even to me: 11:6 Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes,
I considered, and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,
and creeping things, and fowls of the air.

11:7 And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.

11:8 But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath at
any time entered into my mouth.

11:9 But the voice answered me again from heaven, What God hath
cleansed, that call not thou common.

11:10 And this was done three times: and all were drawn up again into
heaven.

11:11 And, behold, immediately there were three men already come unto
the house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.

11:12 And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. Moreover
these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man's
house: 11:13 And he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house,
which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon,
whose surname is Peter; 11:14 Who shall tell thee words, whereby thou
and all thy house shall be saved.

11:15 And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us
at the beginning.

11:16 Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John
indeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy
Ghost.

11:17 Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us,
who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; what was I, that I could
withstand God?  11:18 When they heard these things, they held their
peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles
granted repentance unto life.

11:19 Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that
arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, and
Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.

11:20 And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they
were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORD
Jesus.

11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number
believed, and turned unto the Lord.

11:22 Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church
which was in Jerusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should
go as far as Antioch.

11:23 Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, and
exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto
the Lord.

11:24 For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith:
and much people was added unto the Lord.

11:25 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul: 11:26 And
when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to
pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and
taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in
Antioch.

11:27 And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.

11:28 And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified by
the Spirit that there should be great dearth throughout all the world:
which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar.

11:29 Then the disciples, every man according to his ability,
determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:
11:30 Which also they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of
Barnabas and Saul.

12:1 Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to
vex certain of the church.

12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.

12:3 And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to
take Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)  12:4 And
when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him
to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter to
bring him forth to the people.

12:5 Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without
ceasing of the church unto God for him.

12:6 And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter
was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the
keepers before the door kept the prison.

12:7 And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light
shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him
up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.

12:8 And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy
sandals.

And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and
follow me.

12:9 And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was true
which was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision.

12:10 When they were past the first and the second ward, they came
unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them of
his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street;
and forthwith the angel departed from him.

12:11 And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a
surety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out
of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of
the Jews.

12:12 And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of
Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were
gathered together praying.

12:13 And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to
hearken, named Rhoda.

12:14 And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for
gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.

12:15 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly
affirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.

12:16 But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door,
and saw him, they were astonished.

12:17 But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace,
declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And
he said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren. And he
departed, and went into another place.

12:18 Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the
soldiers, what was become of Peter.

12:19 And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he
examined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to death.
And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.

12:20 And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: but
they came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king's
chamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their country was
nourished by the king's country.

12:21 And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his
throne, and made an oration unto them.

12:22 And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a god,
and not of a man.

12:23 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave
not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost.

12:24 But the word of God grew and multiplied.

12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they had
fulfilled their ministry, and took with them John, whose surname was
Mark.

13:1 Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets
and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and
Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod the
tetrarch, and Saul.

13:2 As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said,
Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called
them.

13:3 And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on
them, they sent them away.

13:4 So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto
Seleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.

13:5 And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in
the synagogues of the Jews: and they had also John to their minister.

13:6 And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a
certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Barjesus:
13:7 Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a
prudent man; who called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the
word of God.

13:8 But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation)
withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith.

13:9 Then Saul, (who also is called Paul,) filled with the Holy Ghost,
set his eyes on him.

13:10 And said, O full of all subtilty and all mischief, thou child of
the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to
pervert the right ways of the Lord?  13:11 And now, behold, the hand
of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun
for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness;
and he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.

13:12 Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, being
astonished at the doctrine of the Lord.

13:13 Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to
Perga in Pamphylia: and John departing from them returned to
Jerusalem.

13:14 But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in
Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.

13:15 And after the reading of the law and the prophets the rulers of
the synagogue sent unto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye have
any word of exhortation for the people, say on.

13:16 Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of
Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience.

13:17 The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted
the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with
an high arm brought he them out of it.

13:18 And about the time of forty years suffered he their manners in
the wilderness.

13:19 And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Chanaan,
he divided their land to them by lot.

13:20 And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of four
hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.

13:21 And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saul
the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty
years.

13:22 And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be
their king; to whom also he gave their testimony, and said, I have
found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall
fulfil all my will.

13:23 Of this man's seed hath God according to his promise raised unto
Israel a Saviour, Jesus: 13:24 When John had first preached before his
coming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.

13:25 And as John fulfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that I
am?  I am not he. But, behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes
of his feet I am not worthy to loose.

13:26 Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and
whosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation
sent.

13:27 For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they
knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every
sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.

13:28 And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they
Pilate that he should be slain.

13:29 And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they
took him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.

13:30 But God raised him from the dead: 13:31 And he was seen many
days of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are
his witnesses unto the people.

13:32 And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which
was made unto the fathers, 13:33 God hath fulfilled the same unto us
their children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also
written in the second psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten
thee.

13:34 And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no
more to return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give you
the sure mercies of David.

13:35 Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer
thine Holy One to see corruption.

13:36 For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of
God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption:
13:37 But he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.

13:38 Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through
this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins: 13:39 And by
him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye
could not be justified by the law of Moses.

13:40 Beware therefore, lest that come upon you, which is spoken of in
the prophets; 13:41 Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: for
I work a work in your days, a work which ye shall in no wise believe,
though a man declare it unto you.

13:42 And when the Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentiles
besought that these words might be preached to them the next sabbath.

13:43 Now when the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and
religious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas: who, speaking to
them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.

13:44 And the next sabbath day came almost the whole city together to
hear the word of God.

13:45 But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with
envy, and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,
contradicting and blaspheming.

13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessary
that the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing
ye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life,
lo, we turn to the Gentiles.

13:47 For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be
a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the
ends of the earth.

13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified
the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal life
believed.

13:49 And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the
region.

13:50 But the Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and the
chief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and
Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts.

13:51 But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came
unto Iconium.

13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Ghost.

14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together into
the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both
of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.

14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made their
minds evil affected against the brethren.

14:3 Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which
gave testimony unto the word of his grace, and granted signs and
wonders to be done by their hands.

14:4 But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with the
Jews, and part with the apostles.

14:5 And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also
of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone
them, 14:6 They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe,
cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about: 14:7
And there they preached the gospel.

14:8 And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet,
being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked: 14:9 The
same heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving
that he had faith to be healed, 14:10 Said with a loud voice, Stand
upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.

14:11 And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their
voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us
in the likeness of men.

14:12 And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, because
he was the chief speaker.

14:13 Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought
oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice with
the people.

14:14 Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they rent
their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out, 14:15 And
saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions
with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities
unto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and
all things that are therein: 14:16 Who in times past suffered all
nations to walk in their own ways.

14:17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he did
good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our
hearts with food and gladness.

14:18 And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, that
they had not done sacrifice unto them.

14:19 And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium,
who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the
city, supposing he had been dead.

14:20 Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, and
came into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas to
Derbe.

14:21 And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had
taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and
Antioch, 14:22 Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting
them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much
tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.

14:23 And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had
prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they
believed.

14:24 And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to
Pamphylia.

14:25 And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down
into Attalia: 14:26 And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had
been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they
fulfilled.

14:27 And when they were come, and had gathered the church together,
they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened
the door of faith unto the Gentiles.

14:28 And there they abode long time with the disciples.

15:1 And certain men which came down from Judaea taught the brethren,
and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye
cannot be saved.

15:2 When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and
disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and
certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and
elders about this question.

15:3 And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through
Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and
they caused great joy unto all the brethren.

15:4 And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the
church, and of the apostles and elders, and they declared all things
that God had done with them.

15:5 But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which
believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and to
command them to keep the law of Moses.

15:6 And the apostles and elders came together for to consider of this
matter.

15:7 And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up, and said
unto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God
made choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the
word of the gospel, and believe.

15:8 And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witness, giving them
the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us; 15:9 And put no difference
between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.

15:10 Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of
the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
15:11 But we believe that through the grace of the LORD Jesus Christ
we shall be saved, even as they.

15:12 Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to
Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought
among the Gentiles by them.

15:13 And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men
and brethren, hearken unto me: 15:14 Simeon hath declared how God at
the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his
name.

15:15 And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
15:16 After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of
David, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof,
and I will set it up: 15:17 That the residue of men might seek after
the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the
Lord, who doeth all these things.

15:18 Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the
world.

15:19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which from
among the Gentiles are turned to God: 15:20 But that we write unto
them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from
fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.

15:21 For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him,
being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.

15:22 Then pleased it the apostles and elders with the whole church,
to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and
Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas and Silas, chief men among
the brethren: 15:23 And they wrote letters by them after this manner;
The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethren
which are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.

15:24 Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from us
have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must
be circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:
15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send
chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 15:26 Men that
have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you
the same things by mouth.

15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you
no greater burden than these necessary things; 15:29 That ye abstain
from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things
strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye
shall do well. Fare ye well.

15:30 So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they
had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle: 15:31
Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.

15:32 And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted
the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.

15:33 And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in
peace from the brethren unto the apostles.

15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.

15:35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and
preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.

15:36 And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and
visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of
the LORD, and see how they do.

15:37 And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname
was Mark.

15:38 But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed
from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.

15:39 And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed
asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto
Cyprus; 15:40 And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by
the brethren unto the grace of God.

15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.

16:1 Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciple
was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a
Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek: 16:2 Which was well
reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.

16:3 Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took and
circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: for
they knew all that his father was a Greek.

16:4 And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the
decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders
which were at Jerusalem.

16:5 And so were the churches established in the faith, and increased
in number daily.

16:6 Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of
Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in
Asia, 16:7 After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into
Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.

16:8 And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.

16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of
Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help
us.

16:10 And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to
go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for
to preach the gospel unto them.

16:11 Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to
Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis; 16:12 And from thence to
Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a
colony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.

16:13 And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side,
where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the
women which resorted thither.

16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city
of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord
opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.

16:15 And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us,
saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my
house, and abide there. And she constrained us.

16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel
possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her
masters much gain by soothsaying: 16:17 The same followed Paul and us,
and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God,
which shew unto us the way of salvation.

16:18 And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and
said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come
out of her.

And he came out the same hour.

16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone,
they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace unto
the rulers, 16:20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These
men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, 16:21 And teach
customs, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe,
being Romans.

16:22 And the multitude rose up together against them: and the
magistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.

16:23 And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them
into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely: 16:24 Who,
having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and
made their feet fast in the stocks.

16:25 And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto
God: and the prisoners heard them.

16:26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the
foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors
were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.

16:27 And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and
seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would have
killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.

16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm:
for we are all here.

16:29 Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling,
and fell down before Paul and Silas, 16:30 And brought them out, and
said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?  16:31 And they said, Believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.

16:32 And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that
were in his house.

16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their
stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.

16:34 And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before
them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.

16:35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying,
Let those men go.

16:36 And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, The
magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in
peace.

16:37 But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned,
being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us
out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us
out.

16:38 And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: and
they feared, when they heard that they were Romans.

16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and
desired them to depart out of the city.

16:40 And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of
Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and
departed.

17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they
came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews: 17:2 And
Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days
reasoned with them out of the scriptures, 17:3 Opening and alleging,
that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead;
and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.

17:4 And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; and
of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a
few.

17:5 But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them
certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and
set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and
sought to bring them out to the people.

17:6 And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain
brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned
the world upside down are come hither also; 17:7 Whom Jason hath
received: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying
that there is another king, one Jesus.

17:8 And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when
they heard these things.

17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they
let them go.

17:10 And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night
unto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.

17:11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they
received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the
scriptures daily, whether those things were so.

17:12 Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women which
were Greeks, and of men, not a few.

17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of
God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirred
up the people.

17:14 And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as it
were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.

17:15 And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and
receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him
with all speed, they departed.

17:16 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred
in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.

17:17 Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with
the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with
him.

17:18 Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks,
encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? other
some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he
preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.

17:19 And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May
we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?  17:20 For
thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know
therefore what these things mean.

17:21 (For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent
their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new
thing.)  17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said,
Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
superstitious.

17:23 For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar
with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye
ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.

17:24 God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he
is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
17:25 Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any
thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; 17:26
And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the
face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and
the bounds of their habitation; 17:27 That they should seek the Lord,
if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far
from every one of us: 17:28 For in him we live, and move, and have our
being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also
his offspring.

17:29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to
think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven
by art and man's device.

17:30 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now
commandeth all men every where to repent: 17:31 Because he hath
appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness
by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance
unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.

17:32 And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some
mocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.

17:33 So Paul departed from among them.

17:34 Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the
which was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and
others with them.

18:1 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to
Corinth; 18:2 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus,
lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that
Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto
them.

18:3 And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and
wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.

18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the
Jews and the Greeks.

18:5 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was
pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was
Christ.

18:6 And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his
raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am
clean; from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.

18:7 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house,
named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the
synagogue.

18:8 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the
Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed,
and were baptized.

18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not
afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace: 18:10 For I am with thee,
and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in
this city.

18:11 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word
of God among them.

18:12 And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made
insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the
judgment seat, 18:13 Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God
contrary to the law.

18:14 And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto
the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews,
reason would that I should bear with you: 18:15 But if it be a
question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I
will be no judge of such matters.

18:16 And he drave them from the judgment seat.

18:17 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the
synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for
none of those things.

18:18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then
took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with
him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he
had a vow.

18:19 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself
entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.

18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he
consented not; 18:21 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all
means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return
again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.

18:22 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the
church, he went down to Antioch.

18:23 And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went
over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening
all the disciples.

18:24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent
man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.

18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being
fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of
the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.

18:26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila
and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto
him the way of God more perfectly.

18:27 And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren
wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come,
helped them much which had believed through grace: 18:28 For he
mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the
scriptures that Jesus was Christ.

19:1 And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and finding
certain disciples, 19:2 He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy
Ghost since ye believed?  And they said unto him, We have not so much
as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.

19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they
said, Unto John's baptism.

19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of
repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him
which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.

19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord
Jesus.

19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came
on them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.

19:7 And all the men were about twelve.

19:8 And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of
three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the
kingdom of God.

19:9 But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil
of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated
the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.

19:10 And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they
which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and
Greeks.

19:11 And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul: 19:12 So
that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons,
and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of
them.

19:13 Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to
call over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus,
saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.

19:14 And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the
priests, which did so.

19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I
know; but who are ye?  19:16 And the man in whom the evil spirit was
leaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that
they fled out of that house naked and wounded.

19:17 And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling at
Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was
magnified.

19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed their
deeds.

19:19 Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books
together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price
of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.

19:20 So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.

19:21 After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when
he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem,
saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.

19:22 So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him,
Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.

19:23 And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.

19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made
silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
19:25 Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and
said, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.

19:26 Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost
throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much
people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands: 19:27
So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but
also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised,
and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world
worshippeth.

19:28 And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and
cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:29 And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caught
Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel,
they rushed with one accord into the theatre.

19:30 And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the
disciples suffered him not.

19:31 And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent
unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the
theatre.

19:32 Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the
assembly was confused: and the more part knew not wherefore they were
come together.

19:33 And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting
him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have made
his defence unto the people.

19:34 But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about
the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:35 And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men
of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of
the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the
image which fell down from Jupiter?  19:36 Seeing then that these
things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do
nothing rashly.

19:37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers
of churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.

19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him,
have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there are
deputies: let them implead one another.

19:39 But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shall
be determined in a lawful assembly.

19:40 For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's
uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this
concourse.

19:41 And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

20:1 And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him the
disciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.

20:2 And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much
exhortation, he came into Greece, 20:3 And there abode three months.
And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into
Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.

20:4 And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the
Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and
Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.

20:5 These going before tarried for us at Troas.

20:6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened
bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven
days.

20:7 And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came
together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on
the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.

20:8 And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were
gathered together.

20:9 And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus,
being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he
sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken
up dead.

20:10 And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said,
Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.

20:11 When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and
eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he
departed.

20:12 And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little
comforted.

20:13 And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there
intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to
go afoot.

20:14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to
Mitylene.

20:15 And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios;
and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and
the next day we came to Miletus.

20:16 For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not
spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to
be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.

20:17 And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of
the church.

20:18 And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from
the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been
with you at all seasons, 20:19 Serving the LORD with all humility of
mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the
lying in wait of the Jews: 20:20 And how I kept back nothing that was
profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you
publickly, and from house to house, 20:21 Testifying both to the Jews,
and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our
Lord Jesus Christ.

20:22 And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not
knowing the things that shall befall me there: 20:23 Save that the
Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions
abide me.

20:24 But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear
unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the
ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the
gospel of the grace of God.

20:25 And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone
preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.

20:26 Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the
blood of all men.

20:27 For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of
God.

20:28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over
the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church
of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.

20:29 For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves
enter in among you, not sparing the flock.

20:30 Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse
things, to draw away disciples after them.

20:31 Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years
I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.

20:32 And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his
grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance
among all them which are sanctified.

20:33 I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.

20:34 Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto
my necessities, and to them that were with me.

20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to
support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.

20:36 And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with
them all.

20:37 And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,
20:38 Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they
should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.

21:1 And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and had
launched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day
following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara: 21:2 And finding a
ship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.

21:3 Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand,
and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to
unlade her burden.

21:4 And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to
Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.

21:5 And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our
way; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till
we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.

21:6 And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and
they returned home again.

21:7 And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to
Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.

21:8 And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and
came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the
evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.

21:9 And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.

21:10 And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a
certain prophet, named Agabus.

21:11 And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound
his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall
the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall
deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.

21:12 And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place,
besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:13 Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine
heart?  for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at
Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21:14 And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will
of the Lord be done.

21:15 And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to
Jerusalem.

21:16 There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea,
and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom
we should lodge.

21:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us
gladly.

21:18 And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all
the elders were present.

21:19 And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what
things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.

21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto
him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which
believe; and they are all zealous of the law: 21:21 And they are
informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the
Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise
their children, neither to walk after the customs.

21:22 What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together:
for they will hear that thou art come.

21:23 Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which
have a vow on them; 21:24 Them take, and purify thyself with them, and
be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may
know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee,
are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest
the law.

21:25 As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and
concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep
themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from
strangled, and from fornication.

21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with
them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the
days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for
every one of them.

21:27 And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were
of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people,
and laid hands on him, 21:28 Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is
the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the
law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple,
and hath polluted this holy place.

21:29 (For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an
Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
21:30 And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and
they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the
doors were shut.

21:31 And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief
captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.

21:32 Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto
them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left
beating of Paul.

21:33 Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded
him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he
had done.

21:34 And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and
when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him
to be carried into the castle.

21:35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne
of the soldiers for the violence of the people.

21:36 For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away
with him.

21:37 And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the
chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak
Greek?  21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days
madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand
men that were murderers?  21:39 But Paul said, I am a man which am a
Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I
beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.

21:40 And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and
beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a
great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying, 22:1
Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto
you.

22:2 (And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them,
they kept the more silence: and he saith,) 22:3 I am verily a man
which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in
this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect
manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye
all are this day.

22:4 And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering
into prisons both men and women.

22:5 As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate
of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren,
and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto
Jerusalem, for to be punished.

22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come
nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a
great light round about me.

22:7 And I fell unto the g