ac, Turnbull.  Sudden
manifestation of Rapinavititis--the delusion that one has stolen
a ship.  First case ever recorded."

Turnbull stood for an instant staggered into stillness.  Then he
ran raging round the garden to find MacIan, just as a husband,
even a bad husband, will run raging to find his wife if he is
full of a furious query.  He found MacIan stalking moodily about
the half-lit garden, after his extraordinary meeting with
Beatrice.  No one who saw his slouching stride and sunken head
could have known that his soul was in the seventh heaven of
ecstasy.  He did not think; he did not even very definitely
desire.  He merely wallowed in memories, chiefly in material
memories; words said with a certain cadence or trivial turns of
the neck or wrist.  Into the middle of his stationary and
senseless enjoyment were thrust abruptly the projecting elbow and
the projecting red beard of Turnbull.  MacIan stepped back a
little, and the soul in his eyes came very slowly to its windows.
When James Turnbull had the glittering sword-point planted upon
his breast he was in far less danger.  For three pulsating seconds
after the interruption MacIan was in a mood to have murdered his
father.

And yet his whole emotional anger fell from him when he saw
Turnbull's face, in which the eyes seemed to be bursting from the
head like bullets.  All the fire and fragrance even of young and
honourable love faded for a moment before that stiff agony of
interrogation.

"Are you hurt, Turnbull?" he asked, anxiously.

"I am dying," answered the other quite calmly.  "I am in the quite
literal sense of the words dying to know something.  I want to
know what all this can possibly mean."

MacIan did not answer, and he continued with asperity: "You are
still thinking about that girl, but I tell you the whole thing is
incredible.  She's not the only person here.  I've met the fellow
Wilkinson, whose yacht we lost.  I've met the very magistrate you
were hauled up to when you broke my window.  What can it
mean--meeting all these old people again?  One never meets such
old friends again except in a dream."

Then after a silence he cried with a rending sincerity: "Are you
really there, Evan?  Have you ever been really there?  Am I simply
dreaming?"

MacIan had been listening with a living silence to every word,
and now his face flamed with one of his rare revelations of life.

"No, you good atheist," he cried; "no, you clean, courteous,
reverent, pious old blasphemer.  No, you are not dreaming--you are
waking up."

"What do you mean?"

"There are two states where one meets so many old friends," said
MacIan; "one is a dream, the other is the end of the world."

"And you say----"

"I say this is not a dream," said Evan in a ringing voice.

"You really mean to suggest----" began Turnbull.

"Be silent! or I shall say it all wrong," said MacIan, breathing
hard.  "It's hard to explain, anyhow.  An apocalypse is the
opposite of a dream.  A dream is falser than the outer life.  But
the end of the world is more actual than the world it ends.  I
don't say this is really the end of the world, but it's something
like that--it's the end of something.  All the people are crowding
into one corner.  Everything is coming to a point."

"What is the point?" asked Turnbull.

"I can't see it," said Evan; "it is too large and plain."

Then after a silence he said: "I can't see it--and yet I will try
to describe it.  Turnbull, three days ago I saw quite suddenly
that our duel was not right after all."

"Three days ago!" repeated Turnbull.  "When and why did this
illumination occur?"

"I knew I was not quite right," answered Evan, "the moment I saw
the round eyes of that old man in the cell."

"Old man in the cell!" repeated his wondering companion.  "Do you
mean the poor old idiot who likes spikes to stick out?"

"Yes," said MacIan, after a slight pause, "I mean the poor old
idiot who likes spikes to stick out.  When I saw his eyes and
heard his old croaking accent, I knew that it would not really
have been right to kill you.  It would have been a venial sin."

"I am much obliged," said Turnbull, gruffly.

"You must give me time," said MacIan, quite patiently, "for I am
trying to tell the whole truth.  I am trying to tell more of it
than I know."

"So you see I confess"--he went on with laborious distinctness--
"I confess that all the people who called our duel mad were right
in a way.  I would confess it to old Cumberland Vane and his
eye-glass.  I would confess it even to that old ass in brown
flannel who talked to us about Love.  Yes, they are right in a
way.  I am a little mad."

He stopped and wiped his brow as if he were literally doing heavy
labour.  Then he went on:

"I am a little mad; but, after all, it is only a little madness.
When hundreds of high-minded men had fought duesl about a jostle
with the elbow or the ace of spades, the whole world need not
have gone wild over my one little wildness.  Plenty of other
people have killed themselves between then and now.  But all
England has gone into captivity in order to take us captive.  All
England has turned into a lunatic asylum in order to prove us
lunatics.  Compared with the general public, I might positively be
called sane."

He stopped again, and went on with the same air of travailing
with the truth:

"When I saw that, I saw everything; I saw the Church and the
world.  The Church in its earthly action has really touched morbid
things--tortures and bleeding visions and blasts of
extermination.  The Church has had her madnesses, and I am one of
them.  I am the massacre of St. Bartholomew.  I am the Inquisition
of Spain.  I do not say that we have never gone mad, but I say
that we are fit to act as keepers to our enemies.  Massacre is
wicked even with a provocation, as in the Bartholomew.  But your
modern Nietzsche will tell you that massacre would be glorious
without a provocation.  Torture should be violently stopped,
though the Church is doing it.  But your modern Tolstoy will tell
you that it ought not to be violently stopped whoever is doing
it.  In the long run, which is most mad--the Church or the world?
Which is madder, the Spanish priest who permitted tyranny, or the
Prussian sophist who admired it?  Which is madder, the Russian
priest who discourages righteous rebellion, or the Russian
novelist who forbids it?  That is the final and blasting test.  The
world left to itself grows wilder than any creed.  A few days ago
you and I were the maddest people in England.  Now, by God!  I
believe we are the sanest.  That is the only real question--
whether the Church is really madder than the world.  Let the
rationalists run their own race, and let us see where _they_ end.
If the world has some healthy balance other than God, let the
world find it.  Does the world find it?  Cut the world loose," he
cried with a savage gesture.  "Does the world stand on its own
end?  Does it stand, or does it stagger?"

Turnbull remained silent, and MacIan said to him, looking once
more at the earth: "It staggers, Turnbull.  It cannot stand by
itself; you know it cannot.  It has been the sorrow of your life.
Turnbull, this garden is not a dream, but an apocalyptic
fulfilment.  This garden is the world gone mad."

Turnbull did not move his head, and he had been listening all the
time; yet, somehow, the other knew that for the first time he was
listening seriously.

"The world has gone mad," said MacIan, "and it has gone mad about
Us.  The world takes the trouble to make a big mistake about every
little mistake made by the Church.  That is why they have turned
ten counties to a madhouse; that is why crowds of kindly people
are poured into this filthy melting-pot.  Now is the judgement of
this world.  The Prince of this World is judged, and he is judged
exactly because he is judging.  There is at last one simple
solution to the quarrel between the ball and the cross----"

Turnbull for the first time started.

"The ball and----" he repeated.

"What is the matter with you?" asked MacIan.

"I had a dream," said Turnbull, thickly and obscurely, "in which
I saw the cross struck crooked and the ball secure----"

"I had a dream," said MacIan, "in which I saw the cross erect and
the ball invisible.  They were both dreams from hell.  There must
be some round earth to plant the cross upon.  But here is the
awful difference--that the round world will not consent even to
continue round.  The astronomers are always telling us that it is
shaped like an orange, or like an egg, or like a German sausage.
They beat the old world about like a bladder and thump it into a
thousand shapeless shapes.  Turnbull, we cannot trust the ball to
be always a ball; we cannot trust reason to be reasonable.  In the
end the great terrestrial globe will go quite lop-sided, and only
the cross will stand upright."

There was a long silence, and then Turnbull said, hesitatingly:
"Has it occurred to you that since--since those two dreams, or
whatever they were----"

"Well?" murmured MacIan.

"Since then," went on Turnbull, in the same low voice, "since
then we have never even looked for our swords."

"You are right," answered Evan almost inaudibly.  "We have found
something which we both hate more than we ever hated each other,
and I think I know its name."

Turnbull seemed to frown and flinch for a moment.  "It does not
much matter what you call it," he said, "so long as you keep out
of its way."

The bushes broke and snapped abruptly behind them, and a very
tall figure towered above Turnbull with an arrogant stoop and a
projecting chin, a chin of which the shape showed queerly even in
its shadow upon the path.

"You see that is not so easy," said MacIan between his teeth.

They looked up into the eyes of the Master, but looked only for a
moment.  The eyes were full of a frozen and icy wrath, a kind of
utterly heartless hatred.  His voice was for the first time devoid
of irony.  There was no more sarcasm in it than there is in an
iron club.

"You will be inside the building in three minutes," he said, with
pulverizing precision, "or you will be fired on by the artillery
at all the windows.  There is too much talking in this garden; we
intend to close it.  You will be accommodated indoors."

"Ah!" said MacIan, with a long and satisfied sigh, "then I was
right."

And he turned his back and walked obediently towards the
building.  Turnbull seemed to canvass for a few minutes the notion
of knocking the Master down, and then fell under the same almost
fairy fatalism as his companion.  In some strange way it did seem
that the more smoothly they yielded, the more swiftly would
events sweep on to some great collision.



XX. DIES IRAE

As they advanced towards the asylum they looked up at its rows on
rows of windows, and understood the Master's material threat.  By
means of that complex but concealed machinery which ran like a
network of nerves over the whole fabric, there had been shot out
under every window-ledge rows and rows of polished-steel
cylinders, the cold miracles of modern gunnery.  They commanded
the whole garden and the whole country-side, and could have blown
to pieces an army corps.

This silent declaration of war had evidently had its complete
effect.  As MacIan and Turnbull walked steadily but slowly towards
the entrance hall of the institution, they could see that most,
or at least many, of the patients had already gathered there as
well as the staff of doctors and the whole regiment of keepers and
assistants.  But when they entered the lamp-lit hall, and the high
iron door was clashed to and locked behind them, yet a new
amazement leapt into their eyes, and the stalwart Turnbull almost
fell.  For he saw a sight which was indeed, as MacIan had
said--either the Day of Judgement or a dream.

Within a few feet of him at one corner of the square of standing
people stood the girl he had known in Jersey, Madeleine Durand.
She looked straight at him with a steady smile which lit up the
scene of darkness and unreason like the light of some honest
fireside.  Her square face and throat were thrown back, as her
habit was, and there was something almost sleepy in the geniality
of her eyes.  He saw her first, and for a few seconds saw her
only; then the outer edge of his eyesight took in all the other
staring faces, and he saw all the faces he had ever seen for
weeks and months past.  There was the Tolstoyan in Jaeger flannel,
with the yellow beard that went backward and the foolish nose and
eyes that went forward, with the curiosity of a crank.  He was
talking eagerly to Mr. Gordon, the corpulent Jew shopkeeper whom
they had once gagged in his own shop.  There was the tipsy old
Hertfordshire rustic; he was talking energetically to himself.
There was not only Mr. Vane the magistrate, but the clerk of Mr.
Vane, the magistrate.  There was not only Miss Drake of the
motor-car, but also Miss Drake's chauffeur.  Nothing wild or
unfamiliar could have produced upon Turnbull such a nightmare
impression as that ring of familiar faces.  Yet he had one
intellectual shock which was greater than all the others.  He
stepped impulsively forward towards Madeleine, and then wavered
with a kind of wild humility.  As he did so he caught sight of
another square face behind Madeleine's, a face with long grey
whiskers and an austere stare.  It was old Durand, the girls'
father; and when Turnbull saw him he saw the last and worst
marvel of that monstrous night.  He remembered Durand; he
remembered his monotonous, everlasting lucidity, his stupefyingly
sensible views of everything, his colossal contentment with
truisms merely because they were true.  "Confound it all!" cried
Turnbull to himself, "if _he_ is in the asylum, there can't be
anyone outside."  He drew nearer to Madeleine, but still
doubtfully and all the more so because she still smiled at him.
MacIan had already gone across to Beatrice with an air of fright.

Then all these bewildered but partly amicable recognitions were
cloven by a cruel voice which always made all human blood turn
bitter.  The Master was standing in the middle of the room
surveying the scene like a great artist looking at a completed
picture.  Handsome as he looked, they had never seen so clearly
what was really hateful in his face; and even then they could
only express it by saying that the arched brows and the long
emphatic chin gave it always a look of being lit from below, like
the face of some infernal actor.

"This is indeed a cosy party," he said, with glittering eyes.

The Master evidently meant to say more, but before he could say
anything M. Durand had stepped right up to him and was speaking.

He was speaking exactly as a French bourgeois speaks to the
manager of a restaurant.  That is, he spoke with rattling and
breathless rapidity, but with no incoherence, and therefore with
no emotion.  It was a steady, monotonous vivacity, which came not
seemingly from passion, but merely from the reason having been
sent off at a gallop.  He was saying something like this:

"You refuse me my half-bottle of Medoc, the drink the most
wholesome and the most customary.  You refuse me the company and
obedience of my daughter, which Nature herself indicates.  You
refuse me the beef and mutton, without pretence that it is a fast
of the Church.  You now forbid me the promenade, a thing necessary
to a person of my age.  It is useless to tell me that you do all
this by law.  Law rests upon the social contract.  If the citizen
finds himself despoiled of such pleasures and powers as he would
have had even in the savage state, the social contract is
annulled."

"It's no good chattering away, Monsieur," said Hutton, for the
Master was silent.  "The place is covered with machine-guns.  We've
got to obey our orders, and so have you."

"The machinery is of the most perfect," assented Durand, somewhat
irrelevantly; "worked by petroleum, I believe.  I only ask you to
admit that if such things fall below the comfort of barbarism,
the social contract is annulled.  It is a pretty little point of
theory."

"Oh!  I dare say," said Hutton.

Durand bowed quite civilly and withdrew.

"A cosy party," resumed the Master, scornfully, "and yet I
believe some of you are in doubt about how we all came together.
I will explain it, ladies and gentlemen; I will explain
everything.  To whom shall I specially address myself?  To Mr.
James Turnbull.  He has a scientific mind."

Turnbull seemed to choke with sudden protest.  The Master seemed
only to cough out of pure politeness and proceeded: "Mr. Turnbull
will agree with me," he said, "when I say that we long felt in
scientific circles that great harm was done by such a legend as
that of the Crucifixion."

Turnbull growled something which was presumably assent.

The Master went on smoothly: "It was in vain for us to urge that
the incident was irrelevant; that there were many such fanatics,
many such executions.  We were forced to take the thing thoroughly
in hand, to investigate it in the spirit of scientific history,
and with the assistance of Mr. Turnbull and others we were happy
in being able to announce that this alleged Crucifixion never
occurred at all."

MacIan lifted his head and looked at the Master steadily, but
Turnbull did not look up.

"This, we found, was the only way with all superstitions,"
continued the speaker; "it was necessary to deny them
historically, and we have done it with great success in the case
of miracles and such things.  Now within our own time there arose
an unfortunate fuss which threatened (as Mr. Turnbull would say)
to galvanize the corpse of Christianity into a fictitious
life--the alleged case of a Highland eccentric who wanted to
fight for the Virgin."

MacIan, quite white, made a step forward, but the speaker did not
alter his easy attitude or his flow of words.  "Again we urged
that this duel was not to be admired, that it was a mere brawl,
but the people were ignorant and romantic.  There were signs of
treating this alleged Highlander and his alleged opponent as
heroes.  We tried all other means of arresting this reactionary
hero worship.  Working men who betted on the duel were imprisoned
for gambling.  Working men who drank the health of a duellist were
imprisoned for drunkenness.  But the popular excitement about the
alleged duel continued, and we had to fall back on our old
historical method.  We investigated, on scientific principles, the
story of MacIan's challenge, and we are happy to be able to
inform you that the whole story of the attempted duel is a fable.
There never was any challenge.  There never was any man named
MacIan.  It is a melodramatic myth, like Calvary."

Not a soul moved save Turnbull, who lifted his head; yet there
was the sense of a silent explosion.

"The whole story of the MacIan challenge," went on the Master,
beaming at them all with a sinister benignity, "has been found to
originate in the obsessions of a few pathological types, who are
now all fortunately in our care.  There is, for instance, a person
here of the name of Gordon, formerly the keeper of a curiosity
shop.  He is a victim of the disease called Vinculomania--the
impression that one has been bound or tied up.  We have also a
case of Fugacity (Mr. Whimpey), who imagines that he was chased
by two men."

The indignant faces of the Jew shopkeeper and the Magdalen Don
started out of the crowd in their indignation, but the speaker
continued:

"One poor woman we have with us," he said, in a compassionate
voice, "believes she was in a motor-car with two such men; this
is the well-known illusion of speed on which I need not dwell.
Another wretched woman has the simple egotistic mania that she
has caused the duel.  Madeleine Durand actually professes to have
been the subject of the fight between MacIan and his enemy, a
fight which, if it occurred at all, certainly began long before.
But it never occurred at all.  We have taken in hand every person
who professed to have seen such a thing, and proved them all to
be unbalanced.  That is why they are here."

The Master looked round the room, just showing his perfect teeth
with the perfection of artistic cruelty, exalted for a moment in
the enormous simplicity of his success, and then walked across
the hall and vanished through an inner door.  His two lieutenants,
Quayle and Hutton, were left standing at the head of the great
army of servants and keepers.

"I hope we shall have no more trouble," said Dr. Quayle
pleasantly enough, and addressing Turnbull, who was leaning
heavily upon the back of a chair.

Still looking down, Turnbull lifted the chair an inch or two from
the ground.  Then he suddenly swung it above his head and sent it
at the inquiring doctor with an awful crash which sent one of its
wooden legs loose along the floor and crammed the doctor gasping
into a corner.  MacIan gave a great shout, snatched up the loose
chair-leg, and, rushing on the other doctor, felled him with a
blow.  Twenty attendants rushed to capture the rebels; MacIan
flung back three of them and Turnbull went over on top of one,
when from behind them all came a shriek as of something quite
fresh and frightful.

Two of the three passages leading out of the hall were choked
with blue smoke.  Another instant and the hall was full of the fog
of it, and red sparks began to swarm like scarlet bees.

"The place is on fire!" cried Quayle with a scream of indecent
terror.  "Oh, who can have done it?  How can it have happened?"

A light had come into Turnbull's eyes.  "How did the French
Revolution happen?" he asked.

"Oh, how should I know!" wailed the other.

"Then I will tell you," said Turnbull; "it happened because some
people fancied that a French grocer was as respectable as he
looked."

Even as he spoke, as if by confirmation, old Mr. Durand
re-entered the smoky room quite placidly, wiping the petroleum
from his hands with a handkerchief.  He had set fire to the
building in accordance with the strict principles of the social
contract.

But MacIan had taken a stride forward and stood there shaken and
terrible.  "Now," he cried, panting, "now is the judgement of the
world.  The doctors will leave this place; the keepers will leave
this place.  They will leave us in charge of the machinery and the
machine-guns at the windows.  But we, the lunatics, will wait to
be burned alive if only we may see them go."

"How do you know we shall go?" asked Hutton, fiercely.

"You believe nothing," said MacIan, simply, "and you are
insupportably afraid of death."

"So this is suicide," sneered the doctor; "a somewhat doubtful
sign of sanity."

"Not at all--this is vengeance," answered Turnbull, quite calmly;
"a thing which is completely healthy."

"You think the doctors will go," said Hutton, savagely.

"The keepers have gone already," said Turnbull.

Even as they spoke the main doors were burst open in mere brutal
panic, and all the officers and subordinates of the asylum rushed
away across the garden pursued by the smoke.  But among the
ticketed maniacs not a man or woman moved.

"We hate dying," said Turnbull, with composure, "but we hate you
even more.  This is a successful revolution."

In the roof above their heads a panel shot back, showing a strip
of star-lit sky and a huge thing made of white metal, with the
shape and fins of a fish, swinging as if at anchor.  At the same
moment a steel ladder slid down from the opening and struck the
floor, and the cleft chin of the mysterious Master was thrust
into the opening.  "Quayle, Hutton," he said, "you will escape
with me."  And they went up the ladder like automata of lead.

Long after they had clambered into the car, the creature with the
cloven face continued to leer down upon the smoke-stung crowd
below.  Then at last he said in a silken voice and with a smile of
final satisfaction:

"By the way, I fear I am very absent minded.  There is one man
specially whom, somehow, I always forget.  I always leave him
lying about.  Once I mislaid him on the Cross of St. Paul's.  So
silly of me; and now I've forgotten him in one of those little
cells where your fire is burning.  Very unfortunate--especially
for him."  And nodding genially, he climbed into his flying ship.

MacIan stood motionless for two minutes, and then rushed down one
of the suffocating corridors till he found the flames.  Turnbull
looked once at Madeleine, and followed.

           *                    *                   *

MacIan, with singed hair, smoking garments, and smarting hands
and face, had already broken far enough through the first
barriers of burning timber to come within cry of the cells he had
once known.  It was impossible, however, to see the spot where the
old man lay dead or alive; not now through darkness, but through
scorching and aching light.  The site of the old half-wit's cell
was now the heart of a standing forest of fire--the flames as
thick and yellow as a cornfield.  Their incessant shrieking and
crackling was like a mob shouting against an orator.  Yet through
all that deafening density MacIan thought he heard a small and
separate sound.  When he heard it he rushed forward as if to
plunge into that furnace, but Turnbull arrested him by an elbow.

"Let me go!" cried Evan, in agony; "it's the poor old beggar's
voice--he's still alive, and shouting for help."

"Listen!" said Turnbull, and lifted one finger from his clenched
hand.

"Or else he is shrieking with pain," protested MacIan.  "I will
not endure it."

"Listen!" repeated Turnbull, grimly.  "Did you ever hear anyone
shout for help or shriek with pain in that voice?"

The small shrill sounds which came through the crash of the
conflagration were indeed of an odd sort, and MacIan turned a
face of puzzled inquiry to his companion.

"He is singing," said Turnbull, simply.

A remaining rampart fell, crushing the fire, and through the
diminished din of it the voice of the little old lunatic came
clearer.  In the heart of that white-hot hell he was singing like
a bird.  What he was singing it was not very easy to follow, but
it seemed to be something about playing in the golden hay.

"Good Lord!" cried Turnbull, bitterly, "there seem to be some
advantages in really being an idiot."  Then advancing to the
fringe of the fire he called out on chance to the invisible
singer: "Can you come out?  Are you cut off?"

"God help us all!" said MacIan, with a shudder; "he's laughing
now."

At whatever stage of being burned alive the invisible now found
himself, he was now shaking out peals of silvery and hilarious
laughter.  As he listened, MacIan's two eyes began to glow, as if
a strange thought had come into his head.

"Fool, come out and save yourself!" shouted Turnbull.

"No, by Heaven! that is not the way," cried Evan, suddenly.
"Father," he shouted, "come out and save us all!"

The fire, though it had dropped in one or two places, was, upon
the whole, higher and more unconquerable than ever.  Separate tall
flames shot up and spread out above them like the fiery cloisters
of some infernal cathedral, or like a grove of red tropical trees
in the garden of the devil.  Higher yet in the purple hollow of
the night the topmost flames leapt again and again fruitlessly at
the stars, like golden dragons chained but struggling.  The towers
and domes of the oppressive smoke seemed high and far enough to
drown distant planets in a London fog.  But if we exhausted all
frantic similes for that frantic scene, the main impression about
the fire would still be its ranked upstanding rigidity and a sort
of roaring stillness.  It was literally a wall of fire.

"Father," cried MacIan, once more, "come out of it and save us
all!"  Turnbull was staring at him as he cried.

The tall and steady forest of fire must have been already a
portent visible to the whole circle of land and sea.  The red
flush of it lit up the long sides of white ships far out in the
German Ocean, and picked out like piercing rubies the windows in
the villages on the distant heights.  If any villagers or sailors
were looking towards it they must have seen a strange sight as
MacIan cried out for the third time.

That forest of fire wavered, and was cloven in the centre; and
then the whole of one half of it leaned one way as a cornfield
leans all one way under the load of the wind.  Indeed, it looked
as if a great wind had sprung up and driven the great fire
aslant.  Its smoke was no longer sent up to choke the stars, but
was trailed and dragged across county after county like one
dreadful banner of defeat.

But it was not the wind; or, if it was the wind, it was two
winds blowing in opposite directions.  For while one half of the
huge fire sloped one way towards the inland heights, the other
half, at exactly the same angle, sloped out eastward towards the
sea.  So that earth and ocean could behold, where there had been a
mere fiery mass, a thing divided like a V--a cloven tongue of
flame.  But if it were a prodigy for those distant, it was
something beyond speech for those quite near.  As the echoes of
Evan's last appeal rang and died in the universal uproar, the
fiery vault over his head opened down the middle, and, reeling
back in two great golden billows, hung on each side as huge and
harmless as two sloping hills lie on each side of a valley.  Down
the centre of this trough, or chasm, a little path ran, cleared
of all but ashes, and down this little path was walking a little
old man singing as if he were alone in a wood in spring.

When James Turnbull saw this he suddenly put out a hand and
seemed to support himself on the strong shoulder of Madeleine
Durand.  Then after a moment's hesitation he put his other hand on
the shoulder of MacIan.  His blue eyes looked extraordinarily
brilliant and beautiful.  In many sceptical papers and magazines
afterwards he was sadly or sternly rebuked for having abandoned
the certainties of materialism.  All his life up to that moment he
had been most honestly certain that materialism was a fact.  But
he was unlike the writers in the magazines precisely in this--
that he preferred a fact even to materialism.

As the little singing figure came nearer and nearer, Evan fell on
his knees, and after an instant Beatrice followed; then Madeleine
fell on her knees, and after a longer instant Turnbull followed.
Then the little old man went past them singing down that corridor
of flames.  They had not looked at his face.

When he had passed they looked up.  While the first light of the
fire had shot east and west, painting the sides of ships with
fire-light or striking red sparks out of windowed houses, it had
not hitherto struck upward, for there was above it the ponderous
and rococo cavern of its own monstrous coloured smoke.  But now
the fire was turned to left and right like a woman's hair parted
in the middle, and now the shafts of its light could shoot up
into empty heavens and strike anything, either bird or cloud.  But
it struck something that was neither cloud nor bird.  Far, far
away up in those huge hollows of space something was flying
swiftly and shining brightly, something that shone too bright and
flew too fast to be any of the fowls of the air, though the red
light lit it from underneath like the breast of a bird.  Everyone
knew it was a flying ship, and everyone knew whose.

As they stared upward the little speck of light seemed slightly
tilted, and two black dots dropped from the edge of it.  All the
eager, upturned faces watched the two dots as they grew bigger
and bigger in their downward rush.  Then someone screamed, and no
one looked up any more.  For the two bodies, larger every second
flying, spread out and sprawling in the fire-light, were the dead
bodies of the two doctors whom Professor Lucifer had carried with
him--the weak and sneering Quayle, the cold and clumsy Hutton.
They went with a crash into the thick of the fire.

"They are gone!" screamed Beatrice, hiding her head.  "O God!  The
are lost!"

Evan put his arm about her, and remembered his own vision.

"No, they are not lost," he said.  "They are saved.  He has taken
away no souls with him, after all."

He looked vaguely about at the fire that was already fading, and
there among the ashes lay two shining things that had survived
the fire, his sword and Turnbull's, fallen haphazard in the
pattern of a cross.








End of Project Gutenberg's The Ball and The Cross, by G.K. Chesterton

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BALL AND THE CROSS ***

This file should be named bllcr10.txt or bllcr10.zip
Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks get a new NUMBER, bllcr11.txt
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, bllcr10a.txt

Produced by Ben Crowder <crowderb@blankslate.net>

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the US
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we usually do not
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

We are now trying to release all our eBooks one year in advance
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.
Please be encouraged to tell us about any error or corrections,
even years after the official publication date.

Please note neither this listing nor its contents are final til
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg eBooks is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so.

Most people start at our Web sites at:
http://gutenberg.net or
http://promo.net/pg

These Web sites include award-winning information about Project
Gutenberg, including how to donate, how to help produce our new
eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter (free!).


Those of you who want to download any eBook before announcement
can get to them as follows, and just download by date.  This is
also a good way to get them instantly upon announcement, as the
indexes our cataloguers produce obviously take a while after an
announcement goes out in the Project Gutenberg Newsletter.

http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext03 or
ftp://ftp.ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext03

Or /etext02, 01, 00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90

Just search by the first five letters of the filename you want,
as it appears in our Newsletters.


Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
to get any eBook selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.   Our
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If the value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour in 2002 as we release over 100 new text
files per month:  1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000+
We are already on our way to trying for 2000 more eBooks in 2002
If they reach just 1-2% of the world's population then the total
will reach over half a trillion eBooks given away by year's end.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away 1 Trillion eBooks!
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only about 4% of the present number of computer users.

Here is the briefest record of our progress (* means estimated):

eBooks Year Month

    1  1971 July
   10  1991 January
  100  1994 January
 1000  1997 August
 1500  1998 October
 2000  1999 December
 2500  2000 December
 3000  2001 November
 4000  2001 October/November
 6000  2002 December*
 9000  2003 November*
10000  2004 January*


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been created
to secure a future for Project Gutenberg into the next millennium.

We need your donations more than ever!

As of February, 2002, contributions are being solicited from people
and organizations in: Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut,
Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts,
Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West
Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.

We have filed in all 50 states now, but these are the only ones
that have responded.

As the requirements for other states are met, additions to this list
will be made and fund raising will begin in the additional states.
Please feel free to ask to check the status of your state.

In answer to various questions we have received on this:

We are constantly working on finishing the paperwork to legally
request donations in all 50 states.  If your state is not listed and
you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have,
just ask.

While we cannot solicit donations from people in states where we are
not yet registered, we know of no prohibition against accepting
donations from donors in these states who approach us with an offer to
donate.

International donations are accepted, but we don't know ANYTHING about
how to make them tax-deductible, or even if they CAN be made
deductible, and don't have the staff to handle it even if there are
ways.

Donations by check or money order may be sent to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
PMB 113
1739 University Ave.
Oxford, MS 38655-4109

Contact us if you want to arrange for a wire transfer or payment
method other than by check or money order.

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been approved by
the US Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) organization with EIN
[Employee Identification Number] 64-622154.  Donations are
tax-deductible to the maximum extent permitted by law.  As fund-raising
requirements for other states are met, additions to this list will be
made and fund-raising will begin in the additional states.

We need your donations more than ever!

You can get up to date donation information online at:

http://www.gutenberg.net/donation.html


***

If you can't reach Project Gutenberg,
you can always email directly to:

Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>

Prof. Hart will answer or forward your message.

We would prefer to send you information by email.


**The Legal Small Print**


(Three Pages)

***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this eBook, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you. It also tells you how
you may distribute copies of this eBook if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS EBOOK
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
eBook, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement. If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this eBook by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from. If you received this eBook on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM EBOOKS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBooks,
is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor Michael S. Hart
through the Project Gutenberg Association (the "Project").
Among other things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this eBook
under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to market
any commercial products without permission.

To create these eBooks, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works. Despite these efforts, the Project's eBooks and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects". Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other eBook medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] Michael Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you may
receive this eBook from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook) disclaims
all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from. If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy. If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS EBOOK IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE EBOOK OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation,
and its trustees and agents, and any volunteers associated
with the production and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
texts harmless, from all liability, cost and expense, including
legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the
following that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this eBook,
[2] alteration, modification, or addition to the eBook,
or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this eBook electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     eBook or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this eBook in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word
     processing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The eBook, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The eBook may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the eBook (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          eBook in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the eBook refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the
     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation"
     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were
     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent
     periodic) tax return.  Please contact us beforehand to
     let us know your plans and to work out the details.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
in machine readable form.

The Project gratefully accepts contributions of money, time,
public domain materials, or royalty free copyright licenses.
Money should be paid to the:
"Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or
software or other items, please contact Michael Hart at:
hart@pobox.com

[Portions of this eBook's header and trailer may be reprinted only
when distributed free of all fees.  Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 by
Michael S. Hart.  Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be
used in any sales of Project Gutenberg eBooks or other materials be
they hardware or software or any other related product without
express permission.]

*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS*Ver.02/11/02*END*

